
Chilling out in Brazil 🌊

Located to the east of Rio de Janeiro, Cabo Frio is Portuguese for "Cape Cold" — so named because the ocean that surrounds it is unusually chilly. Strong northeasterly winds that blow along Cabo Frio's coast push warm surface waters away from the shore, allowing cool water from deeper in the ocean to rise to the surface. This upwelled water is also rich in nutrients, helping feed the rich marine ecosystem off of Cabo Frio's shores.

This image of Cabo Frio was taken from space on September 16, 2023, by the OLI-2 (Operational Land Imager-2) instrument aboard Landsat 9, a partnership between NASA and @USGS. June 8 is #WorldOceansDay — follow @NASAEarth for more photos from around our home planet!

Image description: A lush, green cape, as seen from space. The bottom and right borders are filled with deep blue water, but the land and various lagoons take up the rest of the image. Developed areas fill the bottom-right corner of the visible land, and stretch out across the beaches and lagoon shores beyond. 

Credit: Lauren Dauphin, using Landsat data from the U.S. Geological Survey and data from the Multiscale Ultrahigh Resolution (MUR) project.

#NASA #Earth #Brazil #CaboFrio #Travel #BeachLife
Every day is #BestFriendsDay for Hubble!

For over three decades, Hubble has collaborated with other missions to get a more complete understanding of our universe.

From collaborating with telescopes like @NASAWebb to helping probes that explore our solar system, Hubble's unique vantage point above our atmosphere and ability to see in ultraviolet, visible, and near-infrared light have made it a valuable teammate to many missions.

Explore more on our new Partners in Science webpage at the link in our bio!

This image shows the galaxy M82 with combined observations from Hubble (hydrogen emission and visible light), the Spitzer Space Telescope (infrared light), and @NASAChandraXRay (X-rays). 

Image description: The galaxy M82 shines in many colors against black space. A swathe of glowing, hazy green and yellow stretches across the center of the galaxy. Dark red filaments interspersed with glowing blue extend above and beneath it, surrounding a glowing pink central region. 

Image credit: NASA, ESA, CXC, and JPL-Caltech

#NASA #Hubble #NationalBestFriendsDay #BestFriends #science #space #galaxy #stars #astronomy
That’s us. That’s home.

It’s #WorldOceansDay, so tell us, which ocean is your favorite?

We really can’t pick one, but if we had to, it might be the Pacific! JPL resides in Southern California, after all. 😎

#NASA #JPL #Earth #Oceans #PacificOcean #Galileo #Perspective #Space #Inspiration #BlueDot

📸 Image Description: A color image of the Earth obtained by the Galileo spacecraft early Dec. 12, 1990, when the spacecraft was about 1.6 million miles from the Earth. The color composite used images taken through the red, green and violet filters. The Pacific Ocean covers virtually all of the visible disk of the Earth in this picture. The glint of the Sun reflected from smooth water is near the center. This is a frame of the Galileo Earth spin movie, a 500-frame time-lapse motion picture showing a 25-hour period of Earths rotation and atmospheric dynamics.
Artemis II Update 🚀 
 
NASA will roll the fully assembled core stage for the agency’s SLS (Space Launch System) rocket that will launch the first crewed #Artemis mission out of NASA’s Michoud Assembly Facility in New Orleans in mid-July. The 212-foot-tall stage will be loaded on the agency’s Pegasus barge for delivery to Kennedy Space Center in Florida.

Here, the core stage is currently behind scaffolding to allow work to continue at NASA’s Michoud Assembly Facility in New Orleans. The stage’s two massive propellant tanks hold a collective 733,000 gallons of liquid propellant to power the four RS-25 engines at its base. Following hardware acceptance reviews and final checkouts, the stage will be readied for delivery.

Image credit: NASA/ Eric Bordelon

#NASAMarshall #Space #NASASLS #NASA #NASAMichoud #Artemis #ArtemisII
New whip, who this?⁣
 ⁣
@Boeing’s Starliner pulls into the orbital driveway of the International Space Station (@ISS) carrying two @NASAAstronauts aboard, Butch Wilmore and Suni Williams. This is the spacecraft’s Crew Flight Test, which is testing the end-to-end capabilities of the spacecraft from liftoff to docking and the return to Earth.⁣
 ⁣
After successfully launching on June 5 at 10:52 a.m. EDT (1452 UTC), the crew docked to the space station on June 6 at 1:34 p.m. EDT (1734 UTC). This was the first time humans have gone to space aboard a @ULAlaunch Atlas V rocket, and the first time astronauts launched on an Atlas-family class rocket since Gordon Cooper on the last Mercury program flight aboard Faith 7 in May 1963. It’s the same kind of rocket that launched the Curiosity and Perseverance rovers to Mars.⁣
 ⁣
This is the first time in station history we’ve had three different spacecraft that carried crew to the orbiting lab docked at the same time. Even after more than 25 years of operation, we’re still experiencing so many exciting firsts. ⁣
 ⁣
Stay tuned to nasa.gov/live over the next week for broadcast details on the many activities our astronauts will be up to on the orbital lab as they prepare for their return home.⁣
 ⁣
Image description:  Boeing’s Starliner spacecraft on NASA’s Crew Flight Test approaches the International Space Station while orbiting 263 miles above Quebec, Canada. The spacecraft contrasts with the blackness of space as it floats above the haze of Earth’s atmosphere.⁣
 ⁣
Credits: NASA⁣
 ⁣
#NASA #Boeing #Space #InternationalSpaceStation #ISS #Spacecraft #Starliner
‘Super’ star cluster shines in new look from NASA’s Chandra! Westerlund 1 is the biggest and closest “super” star cluster to Earth. New data from NASA’s Chandra X-ray Observatory, in combination with other NASA telescopes, is helping astronomers delve deeper into this galactic factory where stars are vigorously being produced.

This new image shows the new deep Chandra data along with previously released data from NASA’s Hubble Space Telescope. The X-rays detected by Chandra show young stars (mostly represented as white and pink) as well as diffuse heated gas throughout the cluster (colored pink, green, and blue, in order of increasing temperatures for the gas). Many of the stars picked up by Hubble appear as yellow and blue dots.

Credit: X-ray: NASA/CXC/INAF/M. Guarcello et al.; Optical: NASA/ESA/STScI; Image Processing: NASA/CXC/SAO/L. Frattare

#NASAMarshall #NASA #astrophysics #NASAChandra #NASA #star #starcluster
Oh, Neptune.

Our Voyager 2 spacecraft captured this image of Neptune’s south pole as it sped away from the planet in 1989. Here’s one cool fact about Neptune’s south pole: it’s hotter than the rest of the planet by about 10 degrees Celsius (18 degrees Fahrenheit).

Voyager 2 has been in operation since 1977 and is the only spacecraft to have ever visited Uranus and Neptune. During its travels through the outer solar system, Voyager 2 visited all four gas giant planets, and discovered and photographed many of the planets' moons.

In November 2018, Voyager 2 reached interstellar space, the region between stars filled with material ejected by the death of nearby stars millions of years ago. Its twin spacecraft, Voyager 1, has resided in interstellar space since August 2012. Voyager 1 and 2 are now exploring where nothing from Earth has flown before. In their current mission, the Voyager Interstellar Mission, these two adventurers will explore the outermost edge of the Sun's domain.

Image description: This image is mostly black. The southern pole of Neptune is all that’s visible. It curves along the bottom of the image, like a smile. From left to right along the curve, the planet is blue, fading into a pale yellow.

Credit: NASA/JPL

#NASA #Neptune #Voyager #SpaceExploration #Interstellar #Planet #Space
Forty years ago, a star burst onto the scene as a "nova" – and we're still learning more from it.

This nova occurred when a burned-out star ingested gas from a bloated red giant companion that it orbits.

The star system, HM Sagittae, grew 250 times brighter, and has maintained that brightness for decades. However, Hubble's latest observations show that it's gotten hotter, but has paradoxically faded a little.

Learn more about this #AAS result, just announced today, at the link in our bio.

Image description: An artist's concept of the binary star system HM Sge on the black background of space sprinkled with various sizes of red and white points of light. At the top of the image a blazing hot white disk surrounds a white dwarf star that is pulling a stream of material from its red giant companion, the glowing mottled ball at bottom right.

Image credit: NASA, ESA, Leah Hustak (STScI)

#NASA #Hubble #AAS244 #science #news #astronomy #universe #stars #space
Expedition 71 Flight Engineers (from left) Jeanette Epps and Mike Barratt assist Expedition 71 Flight Engineer Tracy C. Dyson, all three NASA astronauts, during a spacesuit fit check inside the International Space Station's Quest airlock.

NASA astronauts Tracy C. Dyson and Matt Dominick will exit the station’s Quest airlock on Thursday, June 13, to complete the removal of a faulty electronics box, called a radio frequency group, from a communications antenna on the starboard truss of the space station. The pair also will collect samples for analysis to understand the ability of microorganisms to survive and reproduce on the exterior of the orbiting laboratory.

#nasa #astronaut #spacesuit #suit #spacewalk #walk #international #space #station #quest
International Super(nova) Spy 🕵️

Webb has identified 10 times more supernovae in the early universe than previously known. Several are the most distant examples of their type, including those used to measure the universe's expansion rate.

As the universe expands, light gets stretched into longer (infrared) wavelengths over time. This is called redshift! Because their light has been traveling such great distances, and for so long, Webb’s powerful and sensitive infrared eye is ideal for observing far-off supernovae.

Before Webb, only a handful of supernovae above a redshift of 2 (corresponding to when the universe was 3.3 billion years old) had been found. Now Webb’s data sample includes dying stars that exploded when the universe was less than 2 billion years old, in its pre-teens. In total, Webb uncovered ~80 supernovae (circled here in green) in a patch of sky the thickness of a grain of rice held at arm’s length. Learn more at our link in bio!

Credit: NASA, ESA, CSA, STScI, JADES Collaboration

Image description: Space telescope image showing hundreds of objects of different colors, shapes, and sizes scattered across the black background of space. There are small red blobs; larger, fuzzy white or blueish ball-shaped masses with bright centers; white, pink, or blue disc shapes; clear spiral structures; and barely discernible specs. Eighty-three of the smaller objects in the image are circled in green. Some of the circles are close together; some are far apart; some overlap. There is no apparent pattern in the distribution.

#JWST #JamesWebbSpaceTelescope #Supernova #Universe #Space #NASA
NASA’s Deep Space Food Challenge kicks off its final eight-week demonstration this month, and a new crew is running the show. NASA’s partner for the Deep Space Food Challenge, the Methuselah Foundation, has teamed up  with Ohio State University in Columbus to facilitate the challenge’s third and final phase. The university is employing current and former students to serve on a “Simunaut” crew to maintain and operate the food production technologies during the demonstration period. 

The Deep Space Food Challenge creates novel food production systems that offer safe, nutritious, and delicious food for long-duration human exploration missions while conscious of waste, resources, and labor. In this image are the four student “Simunauts” (simulated analog astronauts) Ohio State University has hired to test NASA’s Deep Space Food Challenge technologies at the Wilbur A. Gould Food Industries Center's Food Processing Pilot Plant this summer. From left to right: Charlie Frick, Fuanyi Fobellah, Sakura Sugiyama, and Mehr Un Nisa.

Image credit: Ohio State University

#NASA #NASAMarshall #CentennialChallenges #Challenge #Competition #DeepSpaceFoodChallenge
Let’s look back at #NASAStennisHistory! In this June 9, 2015, image, operators at the E-2 Test Stand at NASA Stennis conduct a test of the oxygen preburner component developed by @spacex (Space Exploration Technologies Corporation) for its Raptor engine. The fully developed engine now powers the company’s Starship spacecraft designed to enable missions to the Moon and beyond.
Ring ring! @NASAWebb calling 👋

This image of the Southern Ring Nebula was one of the very first that the James Webb Space Telescope shared with the world back in 2022. Officially known as NGC 3132, the Southern Ring Nebula is a cloud of gas and dust surrounding a dying star 2,500 light-years from Earth.

With its high-resolution, infrared vision, Webb is able to peer through the dust to study the glimmering details within. Observations like these are helping astronomers understand the life and death of the stars that make up our galaxy—and Webb's just getting started.

Image description: A planetary nebula, seen by the Webb telescope's NIRCam instrument, against the blackness of space, with points of starlight behind it. The nebula itself is shaped like an irregular oval, with lacy, reddish orange plumes of gas and dust. Further inside the circle, the gas and dust glows bright blue. A glowing white ring separates the red and blue gases. In the center of the rings are two stars, one glowing much brighter than the other, with diffraction spikes radiating out from it.

Credits: NASA, ESA, CSA, and STScI

#NASA #Space #Universe #Astrophotography #Ring #Nebula #JamesWebb
NGC 4414 helped light the way! 💡

This dusty spiral galaxy was imaged in the 1990s by Hubble as part of the HST Key Project on the Extragalactic Distance Scale. Astronomers examined this galaxy with Hubble 13 times over the course of two months, in order to best calculate its distance from Earth.

Based on careful brightness measurements of variable stars (stars that fluctuate in brightness) in NGC 4414, astronomers determined the galaxy is 60 million light-years away.

This information helped scientists understand more about the rate of the expansion of our universe, and teaches us more about the distance and size of many cosmic objects, and even the age of the universe itself.

NGC 4414's central regions contain yellow and red stars that are primarily older, which is common for spiral galaxies. The outer arms are considerably bluer in this #HubbleClassic view due to ongoing formation of young, blue stars.

Image description: A massive spiral galaxy fills the image. With a glowing yellow center, its spiral arms extend outward and are interlaced with dark brown dust  and hazy regions of stars, all against black space.

Image credit: The Hubble Heritage Team (AURA/STScI/NASA)

#NASA #Hubble #classic #galaxy #space #science #stars #universe #astronomy
Ad astra. ✨

Ed Stone, former director of JPL and longtime Voyager project scientist, has passed away. He had the distinction of being one of the few scientists involved with both the mission that has come closest to the Sun, NASA’s Parker Solar Probe, and the one that has traveled farthest from it, Voyager.

He will forever be an inspiration to all who #DareMightyThings.

#NASA #JPL #DareMightyThingsTogether #EdStone #Voyager #Scientist #Legend #AdAstra

📸 Image Description: An image of Ed Stone, former director of JPL and project scientist for the Voyager mission, standing in front of a full-size model of the Voyager spacecraft in Von Karman Auditorium. He is dressed in a suit and looking upward with a content and happy facial expression.
We heard you like black holes. Well, scientists using Chandra just studied more than 8,000 of them!⚫

A new X-ray study of over 8,000 rapidly growing black holes in a sample of 1.3 million galaxies, combined with state-of-the-art supercomputer simulations, has provided us with the best modeling to date of the growth of the supermassive black holes found in the centers of galaxies. More in the comments!

Visual Description:
On the left is an X-ray image from XMM-Newton combined with optical light. Pinpoints of light, mostly in shades of gold, blue, and green, are scattered over the black background of space. One point of blue light, a supermassive black hole, is outlined within an illustrated, gray square. The square has lines protruding to our right that connect it with an artist’s concept image of a black hole.

The X-ray and optical image on our left, the image containing the square, slowly dissolves as we move toward the right into an image of a supercomputer model of gas density across enormous distances. The model shows a multitude of teal-colored dots and filaments that are converging in some places, forming larger balls of teal-colored light. The patterns appear somewhat similar to the neural networks imaged in the brains of humans and other animals.

Image: ESA, XMM-Newton, Penn State/F. Zou et al.;
Illustration: N.Trehnl, #Penn State;
Simulations: The TNG Collaboration

#blackholes #galaxies #black #hole #AAS244 #space
The seven Expedition 71 crew members gather with the two Crew Flight Test members for a team portrait aboard the space station. In the front from left are, Suni Williams, Oleg Kononenko, and Butch Wilmore. Second row from left are, Alexander Grebenkin, Tracy C. Dyson, and Mike Barratt. In the back are, Nikolai Chub, Jeanette Epps, and Matthew Dominick.

#nasa #astronaut #roscosmos #cosmonaut #boeing #starliner #international #space #station #crew #team #portrait
The window to the stars let in a particularly pretty pink glow this time!

NGC 3059, a spiral galaxy about 57 million light-years from Earth, was captured by @NASAHubble’s Wide Field Camera 3, through a narrow-band F657N filter, which focuses mostly on the wavelengths of light that show where pink-hued stars are beginning to form. Stars that emit this pinkish hue, 656.46 nanometers, are typically the younger stars in the galaxy. Using this filter helps astronomers study them.

This particular filter was assisted by five wide-band filters to gather the full spectrum of beauty and color present in this galaxy, while still emphasizing the pinkish stars.

The more filters used to capture an image, the more scientists get to explore any particular observation at different wavelengths, which can yield more observations than a single section of the electromagnetic spectrum captured by one filter in any single image.

The blue pockets, revealed only by the supplementary wide filters, show scientists where older stars may be tucked away in NGC 3059.

Image Description:
A barred spiral galaxy seen face-on. Its many arms and distinct, glowing, bar-shaped core are easily visible. The galaxy’s arms hold bluish patches of older stars, pink patches where new stars are forming, and dark threads of dust. A few bright stars with cross-shaped diffraction spikes lie between us and the galaxy and are visible in the foreground.

#Hubble #space #stars #telescope
“Earthrise” by NASA Astronaut Bill Anders

NASA astronaut Bill Anders took this iconic image of Earth rising over the Moon’s horizon on Dec. 24, 1968. Anders, lunar module pilot on the Apollo 8 mission, and fellow astronauts Frank Borman and Jim Lovell became the first humans to orbit the Moon and the first to witness the sight pictured.

After becoming a fighter pilot in the Air Force, Anders was selected as an astronaut by NASA. He was backup pilot for the Gemini XI and Apollo 11 flights, and he was lunar module pilot for Apollo 8 – the first lunar orbit mission in December 1968. Anders passed away on June 7, 2024.

Image credit: NASA

#NASA #NASAMarshall #Apollo #Apollo8 #astronaut #Earth
Planets in progress!

How's this for #ThrowbackThursday? @NASA announced #OTD 30 years ago that Hubble discovered the strongest evidence yet that the planet-making process is common in our Milky Way Galaxy.

Hubble's observations, like the one in this image, reveal huge disks of dust (the raw material for planet formation) swirling around at least half of the stars in the Orion Nebula, a star-forming region only about 1,500 light-years from Earth.

These protoplanetary disks, or proplyds, surround young stars. It's believed our planet Earth, along with the rest of the planets in our solar system, formed in the same way about 4.5 billion years ago.

Thirty years later, astronomers believe that planetary systems like this are common in the universe. And because planets are necessary for life as we know it to become established, this raises the likelihood of the existence of life beyond Earth.

Image description: Hazy, glowing clouds of blue, gray, and pink fill the image. In the foreground, five blobs are protoplanetary disks. The largest is glowing pale orange at center. The others are smaller in size but similar in color, aside from the rightmost blob which is dark brown with a small, bright center.

Image credit: C.R. O'Dell/Rice University; NASA

#NASA #Hubble #OnThisDay #planets #space #stars #history #astronomy #universe
Sometimes, taking a different route can be a good thing.

See what @NASA’s Perseverance Mars Rover discovered after changing course to avoid wheel-rattling boulders on its way to an area nicknamed Bright Angel. In crossing the dune field, the rover traversed an unexpected geological playground, Neretva Vallis, which is an ancient river channel that carried the majority of the water that flowed into Jezero Crater billions of years ago.

One particular rock caught the team’s interest. The light-toned and speckled boulder, nicknamed “Atoko Point,” is about 18 inches (45 cm) wide and 14 inches (35 cm) tall and stands out in a field of darker ones. Analysis by Perseverance’s SuperCam and Mastcam-Z instruments indicate that the rock is composed of the minerals pyroxene and feldspar, similar to boulders the rover has encountered elsewhere. But in terms of the size, shape, and arrangement of its mineral grains and crystals — and potentially its chemical composition — Atoko Point is in a league of its own. Some Perseverance scientists speculate that Atoko Point’s minerals were produced in a subsurface body of magma that is possibly exposed now on the crater rim. Others on the team wonder if the boulder had been created far beyond the walls of Jezero and transported there by the swift Martian waters eons ago. Either way, the team believes that while Atoko is the first of its kind they’ve seen, it won’t be the last.

Perseverance is in the later stages of its fourth science campaign, looking for evidence of carbonate deposits in the ‘margin unit’ along the inside of the crater rim.

#NASA #JPL #Mars #MarsRover #Exploration #PerseveranceRover

📸 Image Description: This color image taken by Mastcam-Z on NASA’s Perseverance Mars Rover shows a very noticeable light-toned boulder with dark speckles in a field of darker ones.
Goobye Neptune! See ya solar system! 👋 

Our Pioneer 10 spacecraft crossed the orbit of Neptune #OTD in 1983, becoming the first human-made object to go beyond our Sun's furthest planet. Only four other spacecraft have followed suit: Pioneer 11, Voyager 1, Voyager 2 and New Horizons.

Learn more: https://go.nasa.gov/3Rqhjej

Image credit: NASA/JPL-Caltech

#NASA #Neptune #SolarSystem #Planet #Pioneer #Voyager #NewHorizons #Sun #Space
The window to the stars let in a particularly pretty pink glow this time!

NGC 3059, a spiral galaxy about 57 million light-years from earth, was captured by @NASAHubble’s Wide Field Camera 3, through a narrow-band F657N filter, which focuses mostly on the wavelengths of light that show where pink-hued stars are beginning to form. Stars that emit this pinkish hue, 656.46 nanometers, are typically the younger stars in the galaxy. Using this filter helps astronomers study them.

This particular filter was assisted by five wide-band filters to gather the full spectrum of beauty and color present in this galaxy, while still emphasizing the pinkish stars.

The more filters used to capture an image, the more scientists get to explore any particular observation at different wavelengths, which can yield more observations than a single section of the electromagnetic spectrum captured by one filter in any single image.

The blue pockets, revealed only by the supplementary wide filters, show scientists where older stars may be tucked away in NGC 3059.

Image Description:

A barred spiral galaxy seen face-on. Its many arms and distinct, glowing, bar-shaped core are easily visible. The galaxy’s arms hold bluish patches of older stars, pink patches where new stars are forming, and dark threads of dust. A few bright stars with cross-shaped diffraction spikes lie between us and the galaxy and are visible in the foreground.

#hubble #space #stars #telescope
Some give their children the world, others give them space. ⭐ Our Galileo spacecraft was named for a father of modern astronomy, Galileo Galilei. Galileo was the first mission to measure Jupiter’s atmosphere directly with a descent probe, and the first to conduct long-term observations of the jovian system from orbit. Galileo orbited Jupiter for almost eight years and made close passes by all its major moons. It found evidence of subsurface liquid layers of saltwater on Europa, Ganymede and Callisto and it examined a diversity of volcanic activity on Io. Its camera and nine other instruments sent back reports that allowed scientists to determine, among other things, that Jupiter’s icy moon Europa probably has a subsurface ocean with more water than the total amount found on Earth. They discovered that the volcanoes of the moon Io repeatedly and rapidly resurface the little world. They found that the giant moon Ganymede possesses its own magnetic field. Galileo even carried a small probe that it deployed and sent deep into the atmosphere of Jupiter, taking readings for almost an hour before the probe was crushed by overwhelming pressure. Image description: A portion of Jupiter’s moon Ganymede is pictured in black-and-white. Crater impacts can be seen across Ganymede’s surface. The image was captured on July 15 1998. Credit: NASA/JPL/Brown University #NASA #Space #FathersDay24 #Fathers #Dad #Astronomy #Spacecraft
California teams win $1.5 million in NASA’s Break the Ice Lunar Challenge! After two days of live competitions, two teams from southern California are heading home with a combined $1.5 million from NASA’s Break the Ice Lunar Challenge. Since 2020, competitors from around the world have competed in this challenge with the common goal of inventing robots that can excavate and transport the icy regolith on the Moon. The lunar South Pole is the targeted landing site for crewed Artemis missions, so utilizing all resources in that area, including the ice within the dusty regolith inside the permanently shadowed regions, is vital for the success of a sustained human lunar presence.

In this image, the husband-and-wife duo of Terra Engineering, Valerie and Todd Mendenhall, receive the $1 million prize Wednesday, June 12, for winning the final phase of NASA’s Break the Ice Lunar Challenge at Alabama A&M’s Agribition Center in Huntsville, Alabama. 

Credit: NASA

#Challenge #Competition #Artemis #NASA #Rocket #Launch #Moon #Space #Science #Innovation #BreaktheIceLunarChallenge #CentennialChallenges #NASAprize #BTIL
The Starliner spacecraft on NASA's Boeing Crew Flight Test is pictured docked to the Harmony module's forward port as the International Space Station orbited 262 miles above Egypt's Mediterranean coast.

#nasa #boeing #starliner #spacecraft #cft #crew #flight #test #earth #harmony #egypt #mediterranean #sea
Webb is cracking open the Crab Nebula to help scientists figure out what is inside. 🦀

The Crab is the remnant of what was once a massive star, but it’s highly unusual in composition, making scientists think its star might not have been typical either. Webb also mapped light emitted from the dust in the Crab Nebula in high resolution for the first time. Unlike other supernova remnants, which have dust concentrated at their centers, the Crab Nebula’s dust is found in the outer shell’s dense filaments. Read more at the link in our bio.

Image credit: NASA, ESA, CSA, STScI, Tea Temim (Princeton University)

Image description: The Crab Nebula. An oval with complex structure extends from lower left to upper right against a black background. On the oval’s exterior lie curtains of glowing yellow and green fluffy material. Its interior shell shows large-scale loops of mottled filaments of yellow-white and green, studded with clumps and knots. Translucent thin ribbons of smoky blue lie within the remnant’s interior, brightest toward its center. The blue material follows different directions throughout, including sometimes sharply curving away from certain regions within the remnant. A faint, wispy ring of blue material encircles the very center of the nebula. Around and within the supernova remnant are many points of blue, green, purple, and white light.

#JWST #JamesWebbSpaceTelescope #CrabNebula #Universe #Space #NASA
Crew aboard the @ISS captured this photo of Galveston, Texas on February 17, 2020. Galveston is where Juneteenth – the June 19 holiday celebrating the day enslaved people there learned they were freed – began.
 
President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation in 1863, but news did not reach Confederate-controlled Galveston until April 1865, when Union troops arrived to inform the people of Texas that all enslaved people were free. As news of General Order No. 3 (issued June 19) spread, spontaneous celebrations broke out in African American churches, homes, and other gathering places. Over time, these June 19th celebrations became more formalized, becoming annual Juneteenth celebrations.
 
Image description: A view of Galveston and Galveston Bay from the International Space Station. Galveston is on a long strip of land that runs down the middle of the image. Streets and buildings are visible. The green water on the left is Galveston Bay, while the darker water on the right is the Gulf of Mexico.
 
Credit: NASA/Drew Morgan
 
#NASA #Galveston #Juneteenth #SpaceStation #History
Today as we honor this significant day in history, we continue to strive for a more equitable and inclusive future within NASA and beyond.

#NASAMarshall #NASA #Juneteenth
The stars, they aligned 🎶
 
See how those bright red, clumpy streaks in the top left are all slanted in the same direction to the same degree? They show aligned protostellar outflows, or jets of gas from newborn stars. @NASAWebb captures this phenomenon for the first time.
 
“Astronomers have long assumed that as clouds collapse to form stars, the stars will tend to spin in the same direction,” said principal investigator Klaus Pontoppidan of @NASAJPL. “However, this has not been seen so directly before. These aligned, elongated structures are a historical record of the fundamental way that stars are born.”
 
Previously, the objects appeared as blobs or were invisible in optical wavelengths. Webb’s sensitive infrared vision was able to pierce through the thick dust, resolving the stars and their outflows.
 
This area is part of the Serpens Nebula. Located 1,300 light-years from Earth, it’s only 1-2 million years old — very young in cosmic terms! It’s home to a dense cluster of newly forming stars (about 100,000 years old), seen at the center of this image.
 
Credit: NASA, ESA, CSA, STScI, Klaus Pontoppidan (NASA-JPL), Joel Green (STScI)
 
Image description: A young star-forming region is filled with wispy orange, red, and blue layers of gas and dust. The upper left corner of the image is filled with mostly orange dust, and within that orange dust, there are several small red plumes of gas that extend from the top left to the bottom right, at the same angle. The center of the image is filled with mostly blue gas. At the center, there is one particularly bright star, that has an hourglass shadow above and below it. To the right of that is what looks a vertical eye-shaped crevice with a bright star at the center. The gas to the right of the crevice is a darker orange. Small points of light are sprinkled across the field, brightest sources in the field have extensive eight-pointed diffraction spikes that are characteristic of the Webb Telescope.

#JWST #NASA #Serpens #Nebula #Stars #Align #Space #Universe
Supernova remnant 3C 58 contains a spinning neutron star, known as a pulsar, at its center. Astronomers studied this neutron star and others like it, revealing that the interiors of neutron stars may contain a type of ultra-dense matter not found anywhere else in the Universe! More in the comments! 💫

📱Get this image as a new #background for your phone at the link in our profile!

Visual Description:
This is an image of the leftovers from an exploded star called 3C 58, shown in X-ray and optical light. At the center of the remnant is a rapidly spinning neutron star, called a pulsar, that presents itself as a bright white object that’s somewhat elongated in shape.

Loops and swirls of material, in shades of blue and purple, extend outward from the neutron star in many directions, resembling the shape of an octopus and its arms.

Surrounding the octopus-like structure is a cloud of material in shades of red that is wider horizontally than it is vertically. A ribbon of purple material extends to the left edge of the red cloud, curling upward at its conclusion. Another purple ribbon extends to the right edge of the red cloud, though it is less defined than the one on the other side. Stars of many shapes and sizes dot the entire image.

X-ray: NASA/CXC/ICE-CSIC/A. Marino et al.;
Optical: SDSS;
Image Processing: NASA/CXC/SAO/J. Major

#neutron #star #space #astronomy #beautiful #physics
Expedition 71 Flight Engineers (from left) Jeanette Epps and Mike Barratt assist Expedition 71 Flight Engineer Tracy C. Dyson, all three NASA astronauts, during a spacesuit fit check inside the International Space Station's Quest airlock.

#nasa #astronaut #suit #spacesuit #walk #spacewalk #quest #international #space #station
The stars, they aligned 🎶
 
See how those bright red, clumpy streaks in the top left are all slanted in the same direction to the same degree? They show aligned protostellar outflows, or jets of gas from newborn stars. @NASAWebb captures this phenomenon for the first time.
 
“Astronomers have long assumed that as clouds collapse to form stars, the stars will tend to spin in the same direction,” said principal investigator Klaus Pontoppidan of @NASAJPL. “However, this has not been seen so directly before. These aligned, elongated structures are a historical record of the fundamental way that stars are born.”
 
Previously, the objects appeared as blobs or were invisible in optical wavelengths. Webb’s sensitive infrared vision was able to pierce through the thick dust, resolving the stars and their outflows.
 
This area is part of the Serpens Nebula. Located 1,300 light-years from Earth, it’s only 1-2 million years old — very young in cosmic terms! It’s home to a dense cluster of newly forming stars (about 100,000 years old), seen at the center of this image.
 
Credit: NASA, ESA, CSA, STScI, Klaus Pontoppidan (NASA-JPL), Joel Green (STScI)
 
Image description: A young star-forming region is filled with wispy orange, red, and blue layers of gas and dust. The upper left corner of the image is filled with mostly orange dust, and within that orange dust, there are several small red plumes of gas that extend from the top left to the bottom right, at the same angle. The center of the image is filled with mostly blue gas. At the center, there is one particularly bright star, that has an hourglass shadow above and below it. To the right of that is what looks a vertical eye-shaped crevice with a bright star at the center. The gas to the right of the crevice is a darker orange. Small points of light are sprinkled across the field, brightest sources in the field have extensive eight-pointed diffraction spikes that are characteristic of the Webb Telescope.

#JWST #NASA #Serpens #Nebula #Stars #Align #Space #Universe
Happy Summer Solstice!

Summer solstice marks the official start of summer here in the Northern Hemisphere, meaning more time to enjoy the outdoors!

What are your plans for the longest day of the year?

Image description: A beautiful yellow, orange, and red sunset lights up the sky, with the Atlantic Ocean beach landscape in the background and plants in the foreground.

Photo credit: NASA/Ben Smegelsky

#NASA #KennedySpaceCenter #NASAKennedy #SummerSolstice #Summer #Ocean #Beach
Top of Solstice 🪐 

It's Earth's solstice today, but Saturn's Northern Hemisphere reached its summer solstice in mid-2017, bringing continuous sunshine to the planet's far north. The Cassini mission used the unparalleled opportunity to observe changes that occur on the planet as the Saturnian seasons turn.

This view looks toward the sunlit side of the rings from about 17 degrees above the ring plane. The image was taken with the Cassini spacecraft wide-angle camera on April 17, 2017 using a spectral filter which preferentially admits wavelengths of near-infrared light centered at 939 nanometers.

The view was acquired at a distance of approximately 733,000 miles (1.2 million kilometers) from Saturn. Image scale is 44 miles (70 kilometers) per pixel.

Image credit: NASA/JPL-Caltech/Space Science Institute

#NASA #AmesResearchCenter #Saturn #Solstice #Earth #Cassini #Space
NASA’s Chandra peers into densest and weirdest stars! The supernova remnant 3C 58 contains a spinning neutron star, known as PSR J0205+6449, at its center. Astronomers studied this neutron star and others like it to probe the nature of matter inside these very dense objects. A new study, made using NASA’s Chandra X-ray Observatory and ESA’s XMM-Newton, reveals that the interiors of neutron stars may contain a type of ultra-dense matter not found anywhere else in the Universe.

In this image of 3C 58, low-energy X-rays are colored red, medium-energy X-rays are green, and the high-energy band of X-rays is shown in blue. The X-ray data have been combined with an optical image in yellow from the Digitized Sky Survey. The Chandra data show that the rapidly rotating neutron star (also known as a “pulsar”) at the center is surrounded by a torus of X-ray emission and a jet that extends for several light-years. The optical data shows stars in the field.

Credit: X-ray: NASA/CXC/ICE-CSIC/A. Marino et al.; Optical: SDSS; Image Processing: NASA/CXC/SAO/J. Major
Space potato 🥔

Phobos is the larger of Mars' two moons—but it's still only about 17 x 14 x 11 miles (27 by 22 by 18 kilometers) in diameter. Because Phobos is so small, its gravity isn't strong enough to pull it into a sphere (like Earth's Moon), giving it its lumpy shape.

Phobos is also on a collision course with Mars—though it'll take a while to get there. It's nearing the Red Planet at a rate of six feet (1.8 meters) every hundred years. At that rate, the moon will either crash into Mars in 50 million years or break up into a ring. 

This image was taken by the High Resolution Imaging Science Experiment (HiRISE) camera on our Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter, which has been studying Mars since 2006.

Image description: The Martian moon Phobos stands against the darkness of space. The moon is brownish-red and lumpy, pocketed with a number of craters of all sizes. A white patch is visible next to Stickney crater, a particularly large crater on its right side. 

Credit: NASA/JPL-Caltech/University of Arizona

#NASA #Space #Universe #Astrophotography #Mars #Phobos #Potato
Cloudy with a chance of new stars! 🌟

Named RCW 7, the nebula in this #HubbleFriday view contains the gas and dust needed to form stars. Under the influence of gravity, parts of the nebula's clouds collapse until they coalesce into very young, developing stars – called protostars!

The protostars in RCW 7 are huge, giving off fierce stellar winds and radiation that are transforming the nebula into something called a H II region.

These regions are full of hydrogen ions. Ultraviolet radiation from the massive protostars excites the hydrogen in the nebula, causing it to emit light.

RCW 7 is located about 5,300 light-years away in the constellation Puppis. Find out more at the link in our bio!

Image description: Clouds of gas and dust with many stars. The clouds form a flat, blue background toward the bottom, and become thicker and smokier toward the top. Stars on one side light the nebula. A thick arc of gas and dust reaches around from the bottom-right corner of the image toward the top-left corner. It begins as a dark and obscuring cloud at bottom right and gradually becomes brightly lit by many stars at the upper left. Other large, foreground stars lie between the nebula and the viewer.

Image credit: ESA/Hubble & NASA, J. Tan (Chalmers University & University of Virginia), R. Fedriani

#NASA #Hubble #Friday #nebula #stars #space #science #astronomy #universe
We’re investigating the origins of the Crab Nebula 🔍

Scientists used @NASAWebb to explore what makes up the Crab Nebula, a supernova remnant located 6,500 light-years away in the constellation Taurus. 

The Crab Nebula is rare, and researchers previously believed it had formed from a core made of oxygen, neon, and magnesium, rather than the more common iron core. However, Webb’s new data offers new interpretations of how this nebula came to be.

Image Description:
The Crab Nebula. An oval with a complex structure extends from lower left to upper right against a black background. On the oval’s exterior lie curtains of glowing yellow and green fluffy material. Its interior shell shows large-scale loops with mottled filaments of yellow-white and green, studded with clumps and knots. Translucent thin ribbons of smoky blue lie within the Crab Nebula’s interior, brightest toward its center. The blue material follows different directions throughout, including sometimes sharply curving away from certain regions. A faint, wispy ring of blue material encircles the very center of the nebula. Around and within the supernova remnant are many points of blue, green, purple, and white light.

#Supernova #Stars #Webb #Space #NASA
First of its kind detection made in striking new Webb image! In this image of the Serpens Nebula from NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope, astronomers found a grouping of aligned protostellar outflows within one small region (the top left corner). Serpens is a reflection nebula, which means it’s a cloud of gas and dust that does not create its own light, but instead shines by reflecting the light from stars close to or within the nebula.

Credit: NASA, ESA, CSA, K. Pontoppidan (NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory) and J. Green (Space Telescope Science Institute)

#NASA #STScI #jwst #jameswebbspacetelescope #NASAGoddard #NASAMarshall #astrophysics #space #nebula
This sea ice is taking a spin down the coast 🌊

Floating fragments of sea ice formed intricate patterns as ocean currents carried them south along Greenland’s east coast in spring 2024. 

Captured on June 4, this movement of sea ice and freshwater out of the Arctic is a component of ocean circulation patterns that distribute heat around the planet. The so-called “global ocean conveyor belt” transports cold water south and warm water north, contributing to climate conditions worldwide. Sea ice has been declining in recent decades, affecting its ability to cool the planet.

Image Description:
A satellite image of Greenland’s east coast shows white floating fragments of sea ice spun into intricate swirls against a midnight blue ocean. Larger floes appear closer to the shoreline. Fast ice, which is ice anchored to the shore or shallow ocean bottom, is visible at the top of the image and along other sections of the coast. Along the upper left edge of the image, Greenland is visible, with brown rocks peeking through white snow.
	
#SeaIce #Ocean #Greenland #MODIS #Earth #NASA
Rise and shine! It’s NASA in the Park day!! 

We are here at Big Spring Park in Huntsville, Alabama, to show our community the work being done at #NASAMarshall to further explore the unknown and inspire the next generation of adventurers. Come join us from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. today, June 22!
Around the world, around the world ✨⁣
⁣
Sixteen times each day, astronauts on the International Space Station (@ISS) experience an orbital sunrise and sunset as the station orbits Earth. In this photo, taken by NASA astronaut Matt Dominick on June 17, 2024, the first rays of an orbital sunrise reflect off a set of roll-out solar arrays. ⁣
⁣
The roll-out arrays are positioned over the legacy solar arrays, and have increased the station’s power generation by 30%, to support our orbiting crew who live, work, and run scientific experiments in space. ⁣
⁣
Credit: NASA/Matt Dominick⁣
⁣
Image description: A set of two large solar arrays, with two smaller roll-out solar arrays positioned above them, are seen almost vertically in a photograph taken from Earth’s orbit by an astronaut on the International Space Station. The rising Sun reflects bright light off the center of the roll-out arrays. Earth’s surface appears below with clouds at the right and toward the horizon. ⁣
⁣
#NASA #SpaceStation #SolarPower #Sunrise #ViewFromYourWindow
To celebrate the 21st anniversary of the Hubble Space Telescope’s deployment into space, astronomers at the Space Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore, Md., pointed Hubble’s eye at an especially photogenic pair of interacting galaxies called Arp 273. The larger of the spiral galaxies, known as UGC 1810, has a disk that is distorted into a rose-like shape by the gravitational tidal pull of the companion galaxy below it, known as UGC 1813. This image is a composite of Hubble Wide Field Camera 3 data taken on December 17, 2010, with three separate filters that allow a broad range of wavelengths covering the ultraviolet, blue, and red portions of the spectrum.

Credit: NASA, ESA, and the Hubble Heritage Team (STScI/AURA)

#NASAMarshall #NASA #astrophysics #NASAChandra #NASA #galaxy
Rhapsody in blue 🎶

This cosmic nebula, a cloud of gas and dust where new stars are born, was spotted by our orbiting @NASAHubble telescope. Located just over 5,300 light-years from Earth, this nebula is home to a number of young, developing stars called protostars, which show up as some of the smaller sparkles in this image.

The Hubble data in this image came from the telescope's Wide Field Camera 3, which peered through the nebula's cocoon of gas with near-infrared vision to study the stars within. This particular nebula is rich with hydrogen ions which are excited by the ultraviolet radiation coming from the nebula's protostars, giving it the pinkish glow seen here.

Image description: A dreamlike stellar landscape, with a pinkish arc of gas standing out against dark blue swirls. A number of stars of various sizes, each accentuated by four diffraction spikes, are abundantly scattered through the image.

Credit: ESA/Hubble & NASA, J. Tan (Chalmers University & University of Virginia), R. Fedriani

#NASA #Space #Universe #Astrophotography #Hubble #HubbleTelescope #Nebula
Remove before flight (x8)

Eight CubeSats will fly on Firefly Aerospace’s (@Fireflyaerospace) Alpha rocket for its “Noise of Summer” launch from Vandenberg Space Force Base, California. The 30-minute launch window will open at 9 p.m. PDT Wednesday, June 26 (or 12 a.m. EDT Thursday, June 27).

Image credit: NASA
Learn more: https://go.nasa.gov/3L4aFXf

#NASA #AmesResearchCenter #SmallSat #Satellite #CubeSat #Flight #Space #Firefly
This nebula’s baby stars may spell its rapid end…in a few million years.

The nebula RCW 7 is a collection of gas and dust that appears within the Puppis constellation. Parts of this star-forming nebula, or molecular cloud, have collapsed under gravity and formed into very young, developing stars known as protostars. RCW 7’s protostars are very massive, and give off strongly ionizing radiation and fierce stellar winds that have transformed the nebula into something called a H II region.

Captured in this photo by @NasaHubble, these new stars emit ultraviolet radiation that excites the hydrogen clouds in the nebula, causing the emission of pinkish light.

The formation of an H II region marks the beginning of the end for a molecular cloud like RCW 7. Within only a few million years, radiation and winds from the massive stars will gradually disperse the nebula’s gas — even more so as the most massive stars come to the end of their lives in supernova explosions. New stars in this nebula will incorporate only a fraction of the nebula’s gas, the rest will spread throughout the galaxy to eventually form new molecular clouds.

The Hubble data in this image came from the study of a particularly massive protostellar binary named IRAS 07299-1651, still in its glowing cocoon of gas in the curling clouds toward the top of the image. To expose this star and its siblings, astronomers used Hubble’s Wide Field Camera 3 in near-infrared light.

Image Description

Clouds of gas and dust with many stars. The clouds form a flat, blue background toward the bottom, and become thicker and smokier toward the top. Stars on one side light the nebula. A thick arc of gas and dust reaches around from the bottom-right corner of the image toward the top-left corner. It begins as a dark and obscuring cloud at bottom right and gradually becomes brightly lit by many stars at the upper left. Other large, foreground stars lie between the nebula and the viewer.

#Stars #Nebula #AstroPhotography
Curious about different configurations of @nasa's Space Launch System rocket? Check out this infographic! 🚀
This galaxy keeps active 🏃‍♂️

Known as NGC 1569, this is a "starburst" galaxy – meaning that it's forming stars at a super high rate. It's one of our most active galactic neighbors, at a cosmically small distance of 11 million light-years away.

For almost 100 million years, NGC 1569 has produced stars more than 100 times faster than our home galaxy, the Milky Way!

This #HubbleClassic view also shows some of the galaxy's massive star clusters, each containing over a million stars.

Image description: Bright blue star clusters shine, surrounded by glowing red clouds that take up most of the lower and right parts of the image.

Image credit: ESA/Hubble & NASA, Aloisi, Ford; Acknowledgment: Judy Schmidt

#NASA #Hubble #classic #stars #space #science #astronomy #universe #cosmos
@nasa and @spacex gave the ‘go’ for launch of the GOES-U (Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite U) mission following a successful readiness review. 

NASA and SpaceX are targeting a two-hour launch window opening at 4:16 p.m. CDT, Tuesday, June 25. The mission will launch on a SpaceX Falcon Heavy rocket from Launch Complex 39A at NASA's Kennedy Space Center in Florida. Visit nasa.gov/live/ for live launch coverage at 4 p.m. CDT. 
 
As the fourth and final satellite in NOAA’s GOES-R Series, GOES-U will enhance meteorologists’ ability to provide advanced weather forecasting and warning capabilities. GOES-U will also improve the detection and monitoring of space weather hazards using a new compact coronagraph instrument. #ReadyToGOES
Dreaming of Saturn 🪐 Saturn’s graceful lanes of orbiting ice — its iconic rings — wind their way around the planet to pass beyond the horizon in this view taken on Aug. 12, 2017 by the wide-angle camera on the @NASASolarSystem Cassini spacecraft. Look closely at the upper right of this image: Saturn’s small moon Pandora (25.3 miles, or 40.7 km, in mean radius) can be seen orbiting just beyond the F ring. The image was obtained at a distance of approximately 581,000 miles (935,000 km) from Saturn. The Cassini mission, which ended on Sept. 15, 2017, after two decades in space, was a cooperative project of NASA, ESA (the @EuropeanSpaceAgency) and the Italian Space Agency. It studied Saturn and its complex system of rings and moons in unprecedented detail, returning an enormous collection of data that will continue to yield new discoveries for decades. Image description: A close-up view of Saturn in black and white looking toward the sunlit side of the rings from about 19 degrees above the ringplane. Saturn’s moon Pandora is visible as a tiny dot in the upper right of the image just beyond the F ring. Credit: NASA/JPL-Caltech/Space Science Institute #Saturn #SolarSystem #NASA #RingsOfInstagram #CloseUp
The first rays of an orbital sunrise reflect off the International Space Station's roll-out solar arrays that overshadow and augment the orbital outpost's main solar arrays. The space station was soaring 260 miles above Arizona northeast of Phoenix at the time of this photograph.

#nasa #earth #sunrise #phoenix #arizona #international #space #station
Seeing double 😵💫

The SpaceX Falcon Heavy dual side boosters return to SpaceX Landing Zones 1 and 2 at Cape Canaveral Space Force Station in Florida shortly after liftoff. The rocket carrying @noaasatellites Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite (GOES-U) launched from @NASAKennedy in Florida on Tuesday, June 25, 2024, at 5:26 p.m. EDT.

The GOES-U satellite is the final satellite in the GOES-R series, which serves a critical role in providing continuous coverage of the Western Hemisphere, including monitoring tropical systems in the eastern Pacific and Atlantic oceans.

Photo credit: NASA/Amber Jean Notvest

#NASA #NASAKennedy #KennedySpaceCenter #Rocket #Launch #SpaceX
Hubble views the lights of a galactic bar! This image from the NASA/ESA Hubble Space Telescope shows the broad and sweeping spiral galaxy NGC 4731. It lies in the constellation Virgo and is located 43 million light-years from Earth. This highly detailed image uses data collected from six different filters. The abundance of color illustrates the galaxy's billowing clouds of gas, dark dust bands, bright pink star-forming regions and, most obviously, the long, glowing bar with trailing arms.

Barred spiral galaxies outnumber both regular spirals and elliptical galaxies put together, numbering around 60% of all galaxies. The visible bar structure is a result of orbits of stars and gas in the galaxy lining up, forming a dense region that individual stars move in and out of over time. This is the same process that maintains a galaxy's spiral arms, but it is somewhat more mysterious for bars: spiral galaxies seem to form bars in their centers as they mature, which helps explain the large number of bars we see today, but they can also lose them if the accumulated mass along the bar grows unstable.

Credit: ESA/Hubble & NASA, D. Thilker

#NASAMarshall #NASA #astrophysics #NASAChandra #NASA #galaxy
@nasa successfully launched the fourth and final satellite in a series of advanced weather satellites for @noaa (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration) at 4:26 p.m. CDT Tuesday, June 25. The GOES-U (Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite) will benefit the nation by providing continuous coverage of weather and hazardous environmental conditions across much of the Western Hemisphere.

The satellite launched on a @spacex Falcon Heavy rocket from Launch Complex 39A at @nasakennedy in Florida. Mission managers confirmed at 9:18 p.m. CDT on June 25 the spacecraft’s solar arrays successfully deployed, and the spacecraft was operating on its own power.

In addition to its critical role in terrestrial weather prediction, the GOES constellation of satellites helps forecasters predict space weather near Earth that can interfere with satellite electronics, GPS, and radio communications. The GOES-U satellite goes beyond the capabilities of its predecessors with a new space weather instrument, the Compact Coronograph-1, which blocks the Sun’s bright light so scientists can observe the relatively fainter solar atmosphere.

Once GOES-U is in a geostationary orbit, about 22,200 miles above Earth, it will be renamed GOES-19. Following a successful orbital checkout of its instruments and systems, GOES-19 will go into service, keeping watch of the weather over most of North America, including the contiguous United States and Mexico, as well as Central and South America, the Caribbean, and the Atlantic Ocean to the west coast of Africa.

@nasagoddard in Greenbelt, Maryland, oversaw the acquisition of the GOES-R series spacecraft and instruments and built the magnetometer for GOES-U and its predecessor, GOES-T. NASA’s Launch Services Program, based at Kennedy, provided launch management for the mission.

The GOES-R Series Program is overseen by NOAA, through an integrated NOAA-NASA office that manages the ground system, operates the satellites, and distributes data to users worldwide. @lockheedmartin designs, builds, and tests the GOES-R series satellites. @l3harristech provides the main instrument payload, the Advanced Baseline Imager, and the ground system.
NASA's Boeing Crew Flight Test astronauts Suni Williams and Butch Wilmore (at center) pose with Expedition 71 Flight Engineers (far left) Mike Barratt and Tracy C. Dyson (far right), both NASA astronauts, in their spacesuits aboard the International Space Station's Quest airlock.

#nasa #astronaut #spacesuit #suit #spacewalk #walk #quest #flight #engineer #commander #pilot #international #space #station
Go with the floe 🧊

These swirling ice floes are spinning off the shore of Greenland, as seen in this photo taken from space on June 4, 2024. Sea ice from the Arctic drifts down the Fram Strait, a 450-kilometer (280-mile)-wide passage that connects the Arctic Ocean with the Greenland Sea. Along the way, it breaks into smaller pieces and starts to melt in warmer ocean waters, creating the smoke-like swirls seen here.

In recent years, more of the Arctic Ocean's sea ice has become too young and thin to make the journey south. The movement of sea ice and freshwater out of the Arctic is part of the ocean circulation patterns that distribute heat around the planet, contributing to climate conditions worldwide — so scientists are keeping a close eye on how these floes flow.

Follow @NASAEarth for more updates from across our home planet.

Image description: An icy shore and dark blue ocean, as seen from space. In between, chunks of ice float in the water; some are large enough to show up as discrete blocks, but others are so small that they swirl through the ocean like cream in coffee.

Credit: Wanmei Liang, using MODIS data from NASA EOSDIS LANCE and GIBS/Worldview

#NASA #Earth #Greenland #Iceberg #GoWithTheFlow
NASA’s Juno gets a close-up look at lava lakes on Jupiter’s moon Io! Infrared imagery from the solar-powered spacecraft heats up the discussion on the inner workings of Jupiter’s hottest moon.

New findings from NASA’s Juno probe provide a fuller picture of how widespread the lava lakes are on Jupiter’s moon Io and include first-time insights into the volcanic processes at work there. These results come courtesy of Juno’s Jovian Infrared Auroral Mapper (JIRAM) instrument, contributed by the Italian Space Agency, which “sees” in infrared light. Researchers published a paper on Juno’s most recent volcanic discoveries on June 20 in the journal Nature Communications Earth and Environment.

The JunoCam instrument aboard NASA’s Juno spacecraft captured two volcanic plumes rising above the horizon of Jupiter’s moon Io. The image was taken Feb. 3 from a distance of about 2,400 miles (3,800 kilometers).

Credit: Image data: NASA/JPL-Caltech/SwRI/MSSS, Image processing by Andrea Luck (CC BY)

#NASA #MarshallSpaceFlightCenter #MSFC #Marshall #jpl #nasamarshall #juno #nasajuno #jetpropulsionlaboratory
In this June 28, 1965, image, the first “space hardware” arrives at NASA Stennis, then-Mississippi Test Operations. The S-II simulator component was built with the same size, weight, and fittings of an actual Apollo Saturn V rocket stage. It was used to ensure test stand capabilities were in place before actual testing began. #NASAStennisHistory
You’re the sunflower 🎵

Millions of light-years away in the small, northern constellation Canes Venatici, the spiral Sunflower galaxy (Messier 63) spreads its many arms – or so it seems. The Sunflower galaxy is a flocculent spiral galaxy. That means its spiral arms aren’t well defined, so it looks like there are many that appear to be winding around its yellow core. In reality, there are just two. The arms shine bright thanks to recently formed, blue–white giant stars.

Star formation is one of the most important processes in shaping the universe. In addition to birthing new stars, it gives rise to planetary systems and plays a pivotal role in the evolution of galaxies. Scientists don’t fully know how stars form in flocculent spiral galaxies, so Messier 63 is a perfect one to study with images like this one from @nasahubble.

Image description: Slightly right of center, the galaxy’s core glows in yellow. The galaxy’s arms spiral outward from the core, filling the image with blue-tinged gas and dust. There are bright blue dots studded throughout these spiral arms; these are young blue-white giant stars. Very little of the darkness of space can be seen in this image, except at the very bottom.

Credit: ESA/Hubble & NASA

#NASA #Hubble #ESA #Galaxy #Sunflower #Stars #Constellation #Astronomy
NASA’s Mars Odyssey captures huge volcano, nears 100,000 orbits! NASA’s longest-lived Mars robot is about to mark a new milestone on June 30: 100,000 trips around the Red Planet since launching 23 years ago. During that time, the 2001 Mars Odyssey orbiter has been mapping minerals and ice across the Martian surface, identifying landing sites for future missions, and relaying data to Earth from NASA’s rovers and landers.

Scientists recently used the orbiter’s camera to take a stunning new image of Olympus Mons, the tallest volcano in the solar system. The image is part of a continuing effort by the Odyssey team to provide high-altitude views of the planet’s horizon. (The first of these views was published in late 2023.) Similar to the perspective of Earth astronauts get aboard the International Space Station, the view enables scientists to learn more about clouds and airborne dust at Mars.

Credit: NASA/JPL-Caltech/ASU

#NASA #NASAMarshall #NASAJPL #MarsOdyssey #Mars
Vivid auroras in Jupiter’s atmosphereEight years ago today, our @NASAHubble Space Telescope observed stunning light shows in the atmosphere of the largest planet in our solar system. Astronomers used Hubble’s ultraviolet capabilities to take this image on June 30, 2016. Auroras are created when high-energy particles enter a planet’s atmosphere near its magnetic poles and collide with atoms of gas. At the time this image was captured, our Juno spacecraft was in the solar wind near Jupiter, on its way to entering Jupiter’s orbit on July 4, 2016. While Hubble observed and measured the auroras on Jupiter, Juno measured the properties of the solar wind itself: a perfect collaboration between a telescope and a space probe.Image description: A full disc image of the planet Jupiter, with swirling cloud tops seen across the large, gas giant planet. The Great Red Spot is seen in the lower right of Jupiter, and bright purple auroras illuminate its northern polar region.Credit: NASA, @EuropeanSpaceAgency, and J. Nichols (University of Leicester)#Jupiter #SolarSystem #Aurora #NASA #Space #OTD
#OnThisDay in 1969:

The 402-foot-tall mobile service structure is moved away from the Apollo 11 spacecraft at Launch Pad 39A.

The move was made during the Countdown Demonstration Test with Apollo 11 astronauts Neil A. Armstrong, Michael Collins and Edwin E. Aldrin Jr.

The trio later launched to the Moon on July 16, 1969.

Credit: NASA

#NASA #KennedySpaceCenter #Rocket #Space #Apollo #Apollo11 #Launch
Surprising phosphate finding in NASA’s OSIRIS-REx asteroid sample! Early analysis of the asteroid Bennu sample returned by NASA’s OSIRIS-REx mission has revealed dust rich in carbon, nitrogen, and organic compounds, all of which are essential components for life as we know it. Dominated by clay minerals, particularly serpentine, the sample mirrors the type of rock found at mid-ocean ridges on Earth. The magnesium-sodium phosphate found in the sample hints that the asteroid could have splintered off from an ancient, small, primitive ocean world. The phosphate was a surprise to the team because the mineral had not been detected by the OSIRIS-REx spacecraft while at Bennu.

In this image, a tiny fraction of the asteroid Bennu sample returned by NASA’s OSIRIS-REx mission, is shown in microscope images. The top-left pane shows a dark Bennu particle, about a millimeter long, with an outer crust of bright phosphate. The other three panels show progressively zoomed-in views of a fragment of the particle that split off along a bright vein containing phosphate, captured by a scanning electron microscope.

Credit: From Lauretta & Connolly et al. (2024) Meteoritics & Planetary Science, 

#NASA #NASAMarshall #MSFC #JSC #NASAJohson #OSIRISRex #asteroid #newfrontiers #bennu #regolith
A stellar “jewel box” 20,000 light-years away⁣
⁣
Thousands of sparkling young stars are nestled within a giant nebula, or vast region of dust and gas, in this image by our @NASAHubble Space Telescope. The nebula, NGC 3603, is a prominent star-forming region in the Carina spiral arm of our Milky Way galaxy.⁣
 ⁣
This nebula was first discovered by Sir John Herschel in 1834. This image spans roughly 17 light-years and was taken Dec. 29, 2005 with Hubble’s Advanced Camera for Surveys.⁣
 ⁣
Image description: Thousands of stars and vast regions of dust and gas are seen in this deep space image. At the center of the image is a central star cluster, with a surrounding nebula on either side. At the top right corner is a small cluster of dark clouds called “Bok” globules.⁣
 ⁣
Credit: NASA, @EuropeanSpaceAgency, and the Hubble Heritage (STScI/AURA)-ESA/Hubble Collaboration⁣
 ⁣
#Nebula #Stars #Universe #NASA #Hubble #HubbleClassic #DeepSpace
Pics or it didn’t happen.

JPL scientists tracked two asteroids as they safely flew past Earth recently – one of them even had an unexpected moonlet! Scientists used the Deep Space Network’s 230-foot-wide (70m) Goldstone Solar System Radar, called Deep Space Station 14 (DSS-14) near Barstow, California to transmit radio waves to the asteroids and received the reflected signals by the same antenna. The radar observations of these close approaches will provide valuable information about their sizes, orbits, rotation, surface details, and clues as to their composition and formation.

Asteroid 2011 UL21 passed Earth on June 27 at about 4 million miles, or 17 times the distance between the Moon and Earth. The well-known asteroid is nearly a mile (about 1.5 km) wide. It was discovered in 2011 by the NASA-funded Catalina Sky Survey, but this is the first time it has come close enough to Earth to be imaged by radar. Along with seeing that the asteroid is roughly spherical object, JPL scientists discovered that it has a smaller asteroid, or moonlet, orbiting it about 1.9 miles (3 km) away.

Two days later, on June 29, the same team observed the asteroid 2024 MK make a close approach, passing our planet at about 184,000 miles (295,000 km). About 500 feet (150 m) wide, the asteroid appears to be elongated and angular, with prominent flat and rounded regions. Such close approaches of near-Earth objects the size of 2024 MK are relatively rare, occurring about every couple of decades.

While both asteroids are classified as a potentially hazardous object, calculations of their future orbits show that they won’t pose a threat to our planet for the foreseeable future.

#NASA #JPL #Asteroids #NEO #NearthEarthObjects #PlanetaryDefense #DeepSpaceNetwork #DSN

📸 Image Description: A black and white image of asteroid 2024 MK showing 21 different phases of its rotation as it drifted safely past Earth on June 29. The image is very blurry but asteroid appears to be about 500 feet (150 meters) wide, elongated and angular, with prominent flat and rounded regions.
While orbiting nearly 260 miles above the North Pacific Ocean, the International Space Station soars from orbital nighttime into orbital daytime.

#nasa #international #space #station #earth #daytime #nighttime #pacific #ocean
{Moo}nwalking 🐮 

NASA astronauts Kate Rubins and Andre Douglas recently performed four moonwalk simulations to help NASA prepare for its #Artemis III mission.

In northern Arizona’s San Francisco Volcanic Field, a geologically Moon-like destination, Rubins and Douglas made observations of the soil and rocks around them and collected samples.

Take a look behind the scenes: go.nasa.gov/6296

Image Credit: NASA

#NASA  #NASAMarshall #Astronauts #moonwalk #Artemis #geology
Cosmic fireworks in time for the Fourth of July⁣
⁣
A fiery hourglass marks this cosmic object that’s turning into a star. @NASAWebb’s Mid-Infrared Instrument spotted this protostar 460 light-years from Earth in the constellation Taurus.⁣
 ⁣
A protostar is a collection of interstellar gas and dust, whose gravitational pull is causing it to collapse on itself and form a star. This protostar is growing in the neck of the hourglass, accumulating material from a thin protoplanetary disk, seen edge-on here as a dark line.⁣
 ⁣
Just in time for the Fourth of July, the protostar is decked out in red, white, and blue—adapted from Webb’s infrared vision. The more diffuse blue light and the filament-like structures in the image come from organic compounds known as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), while the red at the center of this image is an energized, thick layer of gas and dust that surrounds the protostar. The region in between, which shows up in white, is a mixture of PAHs, ionized gas, and other molecules.⁣
 ⁣
Image description: A growing protostar embedded within a molecular cloud. The center of the image shows a bright, red region, where the protostar resides, with a thin, gray lane cutting through it horizontally, which is the protostar’s accretion disk. Above and below this region are white and blue triangular-shaped cavities in the molecular cloud, which give the overall object an hourglass shape. The areas of the cavities closest to the central protostar have more pronounced plumes of white gas and dust that fade to a blue color further from the center. There are red, yellow, orange, blue, and green stars and galaxies scattered across the image.⁣
 ⁣
Credit: NASA, ESA, CSA, STScI⁣
 ⁣
#NASA #Space #Universe #JWST #Stars #Hourglass #Cloud #FourthOfJuly #Festive
This red, white, and blue Hubble view shows the bright variable star V 372 Orionis, seen near the lower right.

It's putting on its own #FourthOfJuly light show! Known as an Orion Variable star, it experiences irregular changes in luminosity.

V 372 Orionis resides within the massive star-forming Orion Nebula, located about 1,450 light-years away.

Image description: Two bright stars with diffraction spikes shine, with the larger star lower-right of center. The smaller one is near the upper-left corner. Small red stars scatter around them. The background has bright-blue gas around the larger star/lower right side of image, with wispier red gas elsewhere.

Image credit: ESA/Hubble & NASA, J. Bally, M. Robberto

#NASA #Hubble #IndependenceDay #USA #space #stars #science #universe #comsos
🎵Baby, you’re a firework, come on, let your colors burst💥

This dazzling fireworks display is the remains of a supernova explosion that was witnessed on Earth in the year 1181. The central star left behind in the aftermath is producing stellar winds that blow at almost 10,000 miles per second!
Happy #4thOfJuly!

X-ray: (Chandra) #NASA, CXC/U. Manitoba/C. Treyturik, (XMM-Newton) ESA/C. Treyturik;
Optical: (Pan-STARRS) NOIRLab/MDM/Dartmouth/R. Fesen;
Infrared: (WISE) NASA/JPL/Caltech/;
Image Processing: Univ. of Manitoba/Gilles Ferrand and Jayanne English

#Fireworks #FourthOfJuly #IndependenceDay #USA #Space
Happy #FourthOfJuly! 🎆 

Even the cosmos seems to celebrate our stars (and stripes) in red, white, and blue! This composite of 30 photos of the Tarantula Nebula, contains data from three space telescopes, Chandra (@nasachandraXray) in blue, Hubble (@NASAHubble) in green, and the Spitzer Space Telescope in red. Located in the Large Magellanic Cloud, the Tarantula Nebula is one of the largest star-forming regions close to the Milky Way.

Image credit: NASA/CXC/PSU/L.Townsley

#NASA #AmesResearchCenter #RedWhiteAndBlue #Stars #StarsAndStripes #IndependenceDay #JulyFourth
Some stellar fireworks for #FourthOfJuly ⭐

Astronomers used @NASAWebb to directly image the Serpens Nebula, a young, star-forming region. The top left area of the image shows jets of gas from newborn stars colliding with nearby gas and dust at high speeds. These outflows are all slanted in the same direction, a previously uncaptured phenomenon. 

This image indicates that as clouds collapse to form stars, the stars will tend to spin in the same direction. 

Image description:
A young star-forming region is filled with wispy orange, red, and blue layers of gas and dust. The upper left corner of the image is filled with an orange and red mixture of gas and dust, created from gas lighting up as the jets plow into the surrounding cloud. At the center, there is one particularly bright star that has an hourglass shadow above and below it. To the right of that is what looks like a vertical eye-shaped crevice with a bright star at the center. The gas to the right of the crevice is a darker orange. The center of the image is filled with blue wisps, created as light from the bright star in the center of the large shadow is reflected on small dust grains. Small points of light are sprinkled across the field; the brightest sources in the field have extensive eight-pointed diffraction spikes that are characteristic of the Webb Telescope.

#SerpensNebula #Stars #Nebula #Webb #Space #NASA #UnfoldTheUniverse #JWST
Celestial Fireworks for the Fourth of July

At NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center, we are dedicated to pushing the boundaries of innovation and scientific discovery. Like the spirit of Independence Day, our mission is to strive to achieve new heights and forge a path forward in space exploration.

We wish you all a safe and happy #FourthOfJuly! 🇺🇸 

L1527, shown in this image from NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope’s MIRI (Mid-Infrared Instrument), is a molecular cloud that harbors a protostar. It resides about 460 light-years from Earth in the constellation Taurus. The more diffuse blue light and the filamentary structures in the image come from organic compounds known as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), while the red at the center of this image is an energized, thick layer of gases and dust that surrounds the protostar. The region in between, which shows up in white, is a mixture of PAHs, ionized gas, and other molecules. This image includes filters representing 7.7 microns light as blue, 12.8 microns light as green, and 18 microns light as red.

Credit: NASA, ESA, CSA, STScI

#NASA #STScI #jwst #jameswebbspacetelescope #NASAGoddard #NASAMarshall #astrophysics #space #protostar #molecularcloud
In this July 4, 1963, image, visitors at the Gulfport Fishing Rodeo (today known as the Mississippi Deep Sea Fishing Rodeo) enjoy a NASA exhibit highlighting the nation’s space program. The 1963 rodeo served as the agency’s and NASA Stennis’ official welcome to the Gulf Coast community. #NASAStennisHistory
Some people want all the attention 🙄

While capturing an image of galaxy NGC 7250, our @nasahubble telescope also saw a moment of stellar upstaging – a single star stealing the show.

Both the star and the galaxy are in the constellation Lacerta (The Lizard), but the star is a million times closer to us than the galaxy, which lies more than 45 million light-years away. This relative closeness is the only way a star can outshine an entire galaxy containing billions of stars.

This star is what astronomers call a “foreground star,” and it’s a bit of a nuisance. Its light can contaminate fainter light from more distant objects that astronomers want to study.

Then again, foreground stars aren’t all bad. In a technique called microlensing, the gravitational pull of a foreground star can be used to amplify the light of a background star that momentarily aligned with it. The exact timing and amount of light amplification can reveal clues to the nature of the foreground star and its accompanying planets.

Image description: Amid a backdrop of galaxies, a star shines brightly with a white-yellow light, slightly left of center. The star has eight long spikes, which are imaging artifacts called diffraction spikes. To the right of the star is a galaxy; clouds of gas and dust can be seen along with stars. Some of the galaxy shines with a bluish light. Dotted all around the rest of the dark background of space are other galaxies and stars.

Credit: @europeanspaceagency/Hubble & NASA

#NASA #Hubble #Galaxy #Stars #Telescope #Astronomy
Due to its unique shape and motion over time, planetary nebula Hen 3-1475 is more casually known as the Garden Sprinkler Nebula. It’s located about 18,000 light-years from Earth and its central star is over 12,000 times brighter than our Sun.☀️

X-ray, Chandra: NASA/CXC/RIT/J.Kastner et al.;
Optical, Hubble: NASA/STScI/Univ. MD/J.P.Harrington

#garden #sprinkler #nebula #astronomy #space
A team of scientists used NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope to parse the composition of the Crab Nebula, a supernova remnant located 6,500 light-years away in the constellation Taurus. With the telescope’s MIRI (Mid-Infrared Instrument) and NIRCam (Near-Infrared Camera), the team gathered data that is helping to clarify the Crab Nebula’s history.

The Crab Nebula is the result of a core-collapse supernova from the death of a massive star. The supernova explosion itself was seen on Earth in 1054 CE and was bright enough to view during the daytime. The much fainter remnant observed today is an expanding shell of gas and dust, and outflowing wind powered by a pulsar, a rapidly spinning and highly magnetized neutron star.

The Crab Nebula is also highly unusual. Its atypical composition and very low explosion energy previously have been explained by an electron-capture supernova — a rare type of explosion that arises from a star with a less-evolved core made of oxygen, neon, and magnesium, rather than a more typical iron core.

Credit: NASA, ESA, CSA, STScI, T. Temim (Princeton University)

#NASA #STScI #jwst #jameswebbspacetelescope #NASAGoddard #NASAMarshall #astrophysics #space #nebula #supernova
Artemis II rocket stage is moving! 🚀 🚢 

NASA is preparing the Space Launch System rocket core stage that will help power the first crewed mission of NASA’s Artemis campaign for shipment. On July 6, NASA and Boeing, the core stage lead contractor, moved the Artemis II rocket stage to another part of the agency’s Michoud Assembly Facility in New Orleans. The move comes as teams prepare to roll the massive rocket stage to the agency’s Pegasus barge for delivery to NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida in mid-July.

Credit: NASA/Michael DeMocker

#Artemis #NASAMarshall #Space #NASASLS #NASA #NASAMichoud
@nasa joined the self-designated “party with a purpose” to let participants in the 30th @essencefest in New Orleans know there is space for everybody at the space agency.

NASA representatives from the agency’s Headquarters in Washington participated in a panel conversation about Black women in the aerospace industry and diversity in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM). NASA Assistant Deputy Associate Administrator for the Moon to Mars Program Office Lakiesha Hawkins and NASA Director of Engagement Aya Collins spoke to fest participants during the Take Up Space (Literally) presentation on July 5.

On both July 5-6, representatives from NASA Headquarters and NASA Stennis also hosted an interactive booth at the Audubon Aquarium near the festival meeting site. The representatives shared about NASA’s Artemis campaign and NASA Stennis’ role as America’s largest rocket propulsion test site. With the Artemis campaign, NASA will land the first woman and first person of color on the Moon, using innovative technologies to explore more of the lunar surface than ever before.

NASA representatives at the Audubon Aquarium provided attendees with memorabilia and an immersive experience to the @iss, which serves as the world’s leading space laboratory. Astronauts aboard the space station are conducting cutting-edge research and technology development to support human and robotic exploration of destinations beyond low Earth orbit, including the Moon and Mars.

The annual ESSENCE Fest attracts hundreds of thousands of people to New Orleans during the Fourth of July weekend to celebrate the Black community. The NASA outreach and engagement effort continues the agency’s commitment to advance equity and reach deeper into underrepresented and underserved segments of society as NASA explores the secrets of the universe for the benefit of all.

[Image: Girls United co-founder Rechelle Dennis, left, holds a conversation about how to excel in the face of adversity with NASA Assistant Deputy Associate Administrator for the Moon to Mars Program Office Lakiesha Hawkins, center, and NASA Director of Engagement Aya Collins at the 30th ESSENCE Festival.]
We’re celebrating two years of science for NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope! 🎉 
 
The telescope continues to impress the world with new discoveries, showing the next generation of scientists, explorers, and dreamers that anything is possible.
 
@NASAWebb is the largest telescope ever launched into space, and its specialty is observing infrared light — allowing it to see the earliest galaxies in the universe, peer into exoplanet atmospheres, see the beginnings of planetary systems, and more.
 
Its second anniversary image shows two interacting galaxies called the Penguin (NGC 2936) and the Egg (NGC 2937), entwined in a slow cosmic dance. Webb’s observations show that they are joined by a blue haze, a mix of stars and gas. The pair have been in the process of merging for tens of millions of years, and will become a single galaxy in hundreds of millions of years.
 
Head to @NASAWebb’s bio for more details.
 
Credit: NASA, ESA, CSA, STScI
 
Image description: Two interacting galaxies known as Arp 142 observed in near- and mid-infrared light. At left is NGC 2937, nicknamed the Egg for its appearance. Its center is the brightest and whiter. There are four diffraction spikes forming an X atop its gauzy blue layers. At right is NGC 2936, nicknamed the Penguin. Its beak-like region points toward and above the Egg. Where the eye would be is a small, opaque yellow spiral. The Penguin’s distorted arms form the bird’s beak, back, and tail. The tail is wide and layered, like a beta fish’s tail. A semi-transparent blue hue traces the Penguin and extends from the galaxy, creating an upside-down U overtop both galaxies. At top right is another galaxy seen from the side, pointing roughly at a 45-degree angle. It is largely light blue. Its length appears approximately as long as the Egg’s height. One foreground star with large, bright blue diffraction spike appear overtop the galaxy and another near it. The entire background is filled with tiny, extremely distant galaxies. The background of space is black.
 
#JWST #Anniversary #Penguin #Egg #Space #NASA #Science #Astronomy
We’re celebrating two years of science for NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope! 🎉 
 
The telescope continues to impress the world with new discoveries, showing the next generation of scientists, explorers, and dreamers that anything is possible.
 
@NASAWebb is the largest telescope ever launched into space, and its specialty is observing infrared light — allowing it to see the earliest galaxies in the universe, peer into exoplanet atmospheres, see the beginnings of planetary systems, and more.
 
Its second anniversary image shows two interacting galaxies called the Penguin (NGC 2936) and the Egg (NGC 2937), entwined in a slow cosmic dance. Webb’s observations show that they are joined by a blue haze, a mix of stars and gas. The pair have been in the process of merging for tens of millions of years, and will become a single galaxy in hundreds of millions of years.
 
Head to @NASAWebb’s bio for more details.
 
Credit: NASA, ESA, CSA, STScI
 
Image description: Two interacting galaxies known as Arp 142 observed in near- and mid-infrared light. At left is NGC 2937, nicknamed the Egg for its appearance. Its center is the brightest and whiter. There are four diffraction spikes forming an X atop its gauzy blue layers. At right is NGC 2936, nicknamed the Penguin. Its beak-like region points toward and above the Egg. Where the eye would be is a small, opaque yellow spiral. The Penguin’s distorted arms form the bird’s beak, back, and tail. The tail is wide and layered, like a beta fish’s tail. A semi-transparent blue hue traces the Penguin and extends from the galaxy, creating an upside-down U overtop both galaxies. At top right is another galaxy seen from the side, pointing roughly at a 45-degree angle. It is largely light blue. Its length appears approximately as long as the Egg’s height. One foreground star with large, bright blue diffraction spike appear overtop the galaxy and another near it. The entire background is filled with tiny, extremely distant galaxies. The background of space is black.
 
#JWST #Anniversary #Penguin #Egg #Space #NASA #Science #Astronomy
Under (no) pressure 🎶 

Teams at @NASAKennedy recently lowered @NASA’s Orion spacecraft for @NASAArtemis II into an altitude chamber using a 30-ton crane in preparation for vacuum testing that will simulate the harsh environment of space onto the vehicle. 

The integrated spacecraft has been undergoing final rounds of testing and assembly, including end-to-end performance verification of its subsystems and checking for leaks in its propulsion systems. The data recorded during these tests will be used to qualify the spacecraft to safely fly the Artemis II astronauts through the harsh environment of space. 

Image description: In this image, technicians lift the Orion spacecraft from the Final Assembly and System Testing (FAST) cell to the altitude chamber inside the Neil A. Armstrong Operations and Checkout building at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida on Friday, June 28, 2024. The altitude chamber has silver paneling and is lined with spiral staircases and ladders. The spacecraft is in the center of the chamber and has some padding and wires exposed. 

#NASA #KennedySpaceCenter #NASAKennedy #Spacecraft #NASA #Space #OrionSpacecraft
Happy second anniversary to @NASAWebb! 

Celebrating two years of science, this egg-citing new image shows the Penguin (NGC 2936) and Egg (NGC 2937) galaxies. These two galaxies are joining together through mutual gravitational attraction in a blue haze of stars and gas. 

Image description: 
Arp 142, two interacting galaxies, observed in near- and mid-infrared light. At left is NGC 2937, nicknamed the Egg. Its center is brighter and whiter. There are six diffraction spikes atop its gauzy blue layers. At right is NGC 2936, nicknamed the Penguin. Its beak-like region points toward and above the Egg. Where the eye would be is a small, opaque yellow spiral. The Penguin’s distorted arms form the bird’s beak, back, and tail. The tail is wide and layered, like a beta fish’s tail. A semi-transparent blue hue traces the Penguin and extends from the galaxy, creating an upside-down U over top of both galaxies. At top right is another galaxy seen from the side, pointing roughly at a 45-degree angle. It is largely light blue. Its length appears approximately as long as the Egg’s height. One foreground star with large, bright blue diffraction spikes appears over top of the galaxy and another near it. The entire black background is filled with tiny, extremely distant galaxies.

#Penguin #Egg #Galaxy #Webb #Space #NASA
It’s time to take a cosmic road trip using light as the highway and visit four stunning destinations across space. The vehicles for this space get-away are NASA’s Chandra X-ray Observatory and James Webb Space Telescope (JWST).

The Cosmic Road Trip presents four distinct composite images from Chandra and JWST in a two-by-two grid, Rho Ophiuchi at lower right, the heart of the Orion Nebula at upper right, the galaxy NGC 3627 at lower left and the galaxy cluster MACS J0416.

Credit: X-ray: NASA/CXC/SAO; Optical/Infrared: (Hubble) NASA/ESA/STScI; IR: (JWST) NASA/ESA/CSA/STScI

#NASAMarshall #NASA #astrophysics #NASAChandra #NASA #nebula #galaxy #galacticcluster #jwst
Warp speed!?

Not quite. The International Space Station (@ISS) and its inhabitants orbit Earth about every 90 minutes, traveling about five miles per second. This long-duration photo of Boeing's Starliner spacecraft that launched NASA's Crew Flight Test astronauts Butch Wilmore and Suni Williams was taken at night from the orbital complex as it soared 258 miles above western China.

Image credit: NASA

#NASA #AmesResearchCenter #CrewFlightTest #InternationalSpaceStation #SpaceStation #Orbit #Earth #Astronauts #Spacecraft #Space
To celebrate the second science anniversary of NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope, the team has released a near- and mid-infrared image on July 12, 2024, of two interacting galaxies: The Penguin and the Egg.

The distorted spiral galaxy at center, the Penguin, and the compact elliptical at left, the Egg, are locked in an active embrace. This near- and mid-infrared image combines data from NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope’s NIRCam (Near-Infrared Camera) and MIRI (Mid-Infrared Instrument), and marks the telescope’s second year of science. Webb’s view shows that their interaction is marked by a glow of scattered stars represented in blue. Known jointly as Arp 142, the galaxies made their first pass by one another between 25 and 75 million years ago, causing “fireworks,” or new star formation, in the Penguin. The galaxies are approximately the same mass, which is why one hasn’t consumed the other.

Credit: NASA, ESA, CSA, STScI

#NASA #STScI #jwst #jameswebbspacetelescope #NASAGoddard #NASAMarshall #astrophysics #space #galaxy
What are these unusual interstellar structures? Bright-rimmed, flowing shapes gather near the center of this rich starfield toward the borders of the nautical southern constellations Pupis and Vela. Composed of interstellar gas and dust, the grouping of light-year sized cometary globules is about 1300 light-years distant. Energetic ultraviolet light from nearby hot stars has molded the globules and ionized their bright rims. The globules also stream away from the Vela supernova remnant which may have influenced their swept-back shapes. Within them, cores of cold gas and dust are likely collapsing to form low mass stars, whose formation will ultimately cause the globules to disperse. In fact, cometary globule CG 30 (on the upper left) sports a small reddish glow near its head, a telltale sign of energetic jets from a star in the early stages of formation.
Clockwise from bottom, NASA astronauts Matthew Dominick, Jeanette Epps, Suni Williams, Mike Barratt, Tracy C. Dyson, and Butch Wilmore, pose for a team portrait inside the vestibule between the Unity module and the Cygnus space freighter from Northrop Grumman. Dyson holds a photograph of NASA astronaut Patrica Hilliard for whom the Cygnus spacecraft, S.S. Patricia “Patty” Hilliard Robertson, is named after.

#nasa #astronaut #northropgrumman #cygnus #spacecraft #international #space #station
Many steps took place, so this step could take place.

From spacecraft design to planning for launch (#OTD in 1969), landing, and the return to Earth, we were there along the way for #Apollo11 and are continuing the journey with #Artemis. 

Image credit: NASA/Rich Sanguillo
Learn more: https://go.nasa.gov/3zK7zFB 
#NASA #AmesResearchCenter #Bootprint #Moon #Apollo #Lunar #Space #Launchiversary #lunarsurface
In July 1969, one step on the Moon marked a giant leap for humanity with #Apollo11. Into its sixth decade of 
@NASA support, NASA Stennis continues to build on its rich history as the nation’s largest rocket engine test site – a place where space dreams are powered into reality.
Heckin’ Good Puppis

This roiling cauldron of gas and dust clouds sprinkled with bright blue hot young stars is NGC 2467. It was discovered in the nineteenth century and lies in the southern constellation of Puppis – not to be confused with the word “puppies,” even though they sound pretty similar – and is thought to be located about 13,000 light-years from Earth.

This star-forming region is a vast cloud of gas – mostly hydrogen – that serves as an incubator for new stars. Some of these youthful stars are peeking out from the dense clouds where they were born, but many others remain hidden. Those stars emit fierce ultraviolet radiation that causes the whole scene to glow while also sculpting the environment and gradually eroding the gas clouds. Studies have shown that most of the radiation comes from the single hot and brilliant massive star just above the center of this near-infrared image captured by @NASAHubble.

Image description: Bright blue stars are scattered across a dense field of orange and yellow clouds of gas and dust. Some of the stars shine very brightly and have four diffraction spikes, while others are a bit dimmer. Very little of the darkness of space can be seen through the clouds.

Credit: NASA, @europeanspaceagency and Orsola De Marco (Macquarie University)

#Stars #Nebula #Ultraviolet #NASA #Space #Cloud #Astronomy
The Milky Way appears in the vastness of space behind the SpaceX Dragon Endeavour spacecraft docked to the Harmony module's space-facing port on the International Space Station.

#nasa #spacex #dragon #endeavour #stars #milkyway #galaxy #universe #harmony #international #space #station
Tired of FM and AM? Try tuning into a radio (wave) from your favorite star!

On July 9, the CubeSat Radio Interferometry Experiment, CURIE, was launched on ESA’s Ariane 6 to investigate the unresolved origins of radio waves coming from the Sun.

Scientists determined that these radio waves come from solar flares and coronal mass ejections (CMEs), but they’re unsure of their origin within the CME.

To get to know this experiment better, we first have to know what a CME is! When these eruptions happen inside the Sun’s outer atmosphere, called the corona, the magnetic field and plasma, or electrified gas, present in the Sun bubble up and sometimes burst, ejecting matter at incredibly high speeds. 

The ejected solar material then shoots through space, affecting other planets and spacecraft in its path. CMEs are also a driver of space weather, which can disrupt satellite communications and technology at Earth. 

Image description: A dark red and bright orange Sun dominates the right and center thirds of the image, with a particularly bright yellow spot on the left edge. Just below this bright spot is a thick, whiplike arch of solar mass that extends outward and downward to the left and loops back around the edge of the Sun.

#SpaceWeather #SolarFlare #Cubesat
“One small step for [a] man, one giant leap for mankind.” - Astronaut Neil Armstrong
 
Fifty-five years ago today, America captured the world’s attention when our Apollo 11 mission landed on the Moon and astronauts Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin became the first to walk on the lunar surface.
 
Today we are reminded how @NASA changed the world during the early era of space exploration. As we look toward the future and prepare for @NASAArtemis astronauts to take the next steps on the Moon, we remember the courage of the Apollo astronauts and their scientific discovery that lit the way forward.
 
As the chair of the National Space Council, @VP Kamala Harris is propelling NASA forward — not just to the Moon, but to explore Mars and beyond. We look to the next generation of scientists, engineers, and explorers to continue this legacy.
 
Photo Credit: NASA
 
Image description: Astronaut Buzz Aldrin poses for a photograph beside the United States flag during an Apollo 11 extravehicular activity on the Moon’s surface. The Lunar Module is on the left, the flag is in the center, and Buzz Aldrin is to the right. The footprints of the astronauts are clearly visible in the gray soil of the moon.
 
#NASA #Apollo #Moon #Artemis #InternationalMoonDay
Fifty-five years ago today, humans were up there. 🌕

On July 20, 1969, humans walked on another world for the first time in history – our closest celestial neighbor, the Moon. In the words of #Apollo11 astronaut Neil Armstrong, it was “one small step for [a] man, one giant leap for mankind.”

An astronaut on the @ISS took this photo of the Moon in May 2024 when it was in the waxing crescent phase, with only a small sliver of the Sun-illuminated side visible on the right. The rest of the Moon glows more faintly by the light of the Sun after it has been reflected off of Earth—a phenomenon called earthshine. Below the Moon, Earth’s bright horizon, or limb, arcs across the bottom of the image. A cross-section of Earth’s atmospheric layers are visible, including the orange troposphere nearest to the surface and the thicker, light-blue stratosphere above that.

Since then, studying the Moon has continued to help us learn more about our home planet. The Moon offers clues as to how life on Earth may have begun, helps climate scientists understand Earth’s energy budget, and inspires us all. 

Image description:
Astronaut photograph of the Moon, a small gray circle with a sliver of brightness along the bottom right side. Earth’s limb is visible at the bottom of the image. Stripes of blue and orange show different sections of Earth’s atmosphere.

#Earth #Moon #AstronautPhotography #ISS #Astronaut #NASA #MoonDay #InternationalMoonDay
“Magnificent desolation.”

After launching aboard a Saturn V rocket from Launch Pad 39A on July 16, 1969, NASA astronauts Astronaut Neil A. Armstrong and Edwin E. Aldrin Jr., took humanity’s first steps on the lunar surface 55 years ago today.

Image description: Astronaut Edwin E. Aldrin Jr., lunar module pilot of the first lunar landing mission, poses for a photograph beside the deployed United States flag during Apollo 11 extravehicular activity (EVA) on the lunar surface. The Lunar Module (LM) is on the left, and the footprints of the astronauts are clearly visible in the soil of the moon. Astronaut Neil A. Armstrong, commander, took this picture with a 70mm Hasselblad lunar surface camera. While astronauts Armstrong and Aldrin descended in the LM the “Eagle” to explore the Sea of Tranquility region of the moon, astronaut Michael Collins, command module pilot, remained with the Command and Service Modules (CSM) “Columbia” in lunar orbit.

Credit: NASA

#NASA #KennedySpaceCenter #Moon #Space #Apollo #Apollo11 #History #OTD
The only way to get to the Moon is to reach for it.

This image was taken from the #Apollo11 spacecraft on its journey home.

Image credit: NASA

#NASA #AmesResearchCenter #Apollo #InternationalMoonDay #Moon #Lunar #Artemis
Behind every giant leap are millions of small steps, from thousands of people, who make space exploration possible. Celebrate 55 years since astronauts first stepped on the Moon with us!

Hear some of the stories from behind-the-scenes of #Apollo11: https://www.nasa.gov/podcasts/explorers-apollo/

Image description: 
A bootprint on the Moon, made by American astronaut Buzz Aldrin during the Apollo 11 mission. The Moon's bumpy, gray surface stands out in sharp detail in this photo, as does the print, which is oval-shaped with thick lines running across its tread.
In July 1969, Apollo 11 astronauts Neil A. Armstrong, Michael Collins, and Edwin E. “Buzz” Aldrin completed humanity’s first landing on the Moon. They fulfilled President John F. Kennedy’s national goal, set in May 1961, to land a man on the Moon and return him safely to the Earth before the end of the decade. Fifty-five years ago, July 20, 1969, Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin landed on the moon. 

In this image, Buzz Aldren stands near a strut from the Lunar Lander as Neil Armstrong works the camera.

Image credit: NASA

#NASA #NASAMarshall #Apollo #Apollo11 #SaturnV #rocket #Moon #space
13 years ago today...

At 5:57 a.m. ET on July 21, 2011, space shuttle Atlantis landed for the final time at Kennedy’s Launch and Landing Facility after 200 orbits around Earth and a journey of 5,284,862 miles on the STS-135 mission and final flight for the Space Shuttle Program.

Image description: Space shuttle Atlantis is a shadow in the night, landing at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center, backlit along the runway with smoke trails streaming from the orbiter.

Image credit: NASA/Kim Shiflett

#NASA #KennedySpaceCenter #History #Space #SpaceShuttle #Rocket #Launch #SpaceCoast
This stately volcano stands tall on the Antarctic continent 🌋

#Landsat 9 captured this image of Mount Siple on February 26, 2024. Sunlight reflects from the snowy, icy surfaces, including the Getz Ice Shelf, which separates the volcano from mainland West Antarctica.

Unlike many volcanoes in Antarctica, Mount Siple has a summit elevation of more than 3,100 meters (10,000 feet), making it one of the few not partially buried beneath the ice sheet’s surface. 

Image description:
A satellite image of the Antarctic continent. A white snowy landscape is broken up by black water. Near the center of the image is a white volcano with the label “Mount Siple.” It is surrounded by water on the bottom half of the image, and ice on the top half of the image. 

#Mountain #Volcano #Earth #Antarctic #NASA
NASA astronauts view historic core stage departure from Michoud Assembly Facility! NASA rolled out the SLS (Space Launch System) rocket’s core stage for the Artemis II test flight from its manufacturing facility in New Orleans on Tuesday for shipment to the agency’s spaceport in Florida. The rollout is key progress on the path to NASA’s first crewed mission to the Moon under the Artemis campaign. In this image, NASA astronaut Reid Wiseman and CSA (Canadian Space Agency) astronaut Jeremy Hansen watch move teams on July 16 transport the core stage of NASA’s SLS (Space Launch System) rocket for delivery to the Space Coast. The core stage will help power their Artemis II mission to the Moon.

Credit: NASA/Sam Lott

#Artemis #NASAMarshall #Space #NASASLS #NASA #NASAMichoud #NASAKennedy #astronaut
Blowing bubbles in a stellar nursery

N44 is a complex nebula located in the Large Magellanic Cloud about 170,000 light-years from Earth. The nebula is filled with glowing hydrogen gas, dark lanes of dust, and countless stars of different ages. One of its most distinctive features, though, is the dark, starry "superbubble" seen near the top of this image captured by @NASAHubble.

The hole, which is about 250 light-years wide, is something of a mystery: it may have been created by stellar winds from the massive stars in the bubble's middle, or by the expanding shells of old supernovae.

Image description: This image of a distant nebula is filled with innumerable stars of different colors and sizes. Dust and gas overlay the photo in areas of greater and lesser density; near the top-center, though, a oval-shaped region of the image is virtually free of dust, allowing the stars within to shine through.

#NASA #Space #Universe #Astrophotography #Hubble #Bubbles #ToilAndTrouble
The Nanoracks Bishop Airlock is pictured in the grips of the Canadarm2 robotic arm as it is positioned away from the International Space Station. The commercial platform was being maneuvered prior to jettisoning a trash container for a fiery, but safe disposal above Earth's atmopshere. Bishop is a multi-faceted airlock attached to the Tranquility module used not only to discard trash, but also to host research payloads, deploy satellites, and serve as a testbed for a variety of space technologies.

#nanoracks #biship #airlock #canadarm2 #robotics #international #space #station
Hubble, Hubble, did you see that full Moon?

Here's one with the top of the Hubble Space Telescope (@NASAHubble), and Earth.

Image credit: NASA

#NASA #AmesResearchCenter #Moon #FullMoon #Hubble #Space #SpaceTelescope #Earth
Simple yet complicated ✨

Dwarf irregular galaxy NGC 5238’s blob-like appearance may appear lackluster at first glance, but with @NASAHubble, researchers can look for signs of whether NGC 5238 devoured a smaller satellite galaxy as recently as a billion years ago. 

A dwarf irregular galaxy like NGC 5238 merging with a smaller companion is the type of event that might have started the process of galaxy assembly in the early universe. Hubble’s observations can help test some of our most fundamental ideas of how the universe evolves! 

Image description:
A dwarf irregular galaxy. It appears as a cloud of bluish gas, filled with point-like stars that spread beyond the edge of the gas. A few glowing red clouds sit near its center. Many other objects are visible around it: distant galaxies in the background, four-pointed stars in the foreground, and star clusters that are part of the galaxy appear as bright spots surrounded by more tiny stars.

#Galaxy #Hubble #Space #NASA
Let’s explore #NASAStennisHistory! This July 22, 1965, photo shows the “Days to Firing” sign used to inspire employees at NASA Stennis, then-Mississippi Test Facility, as they worked toward the first test of a Saturn V rocket stage.
Pose for the camera now, flick flick
 
Astronauts on the @ISS snapped this photo of the waning gibbous moon on Nov. 30, 2023, as they orbited 262 miles above the Swiss Alps. The Moon enters the waning gibbous phase after the full moon phase. As the Moon begins its journey back toward the Sun, the lighted side appears to shrink, but the Moon’s orbit is simply carrying it out of view from our perspective.
 
While astronauts observe and photograph the Moon from space, you can do the same on Earth! Here are a few tips:
1. Planning is key – scout out your photo location during the day, and practice using your camera.
2. Know when and where to look for the Moon (we have resources, hint hint).
3. Zoom in – the Moon often looks much bigger to the eye than it does in photographs, so zoom in as much as you can, especially if you’re using a smartphone.

Check out more tips at https://go.nasa.gov/snapthemoon.
 
You can even hear from the pros: At 4:05 p.m. EDT on Wednesday, July 24, astronauts Don Pettit and Matthew Dominick will talk about astrophotography in low Earth orbit on our NASA X account (formerly Twitter).
 
Image description: The Sun’s rays make the Moon, top center, look a brownish-gray color. It contrasts against the deep blackness of space behind it. A blue haze – Earth’s atmosphere – shows up in the bottom third of the photo. Finally, a blanket of white clouds covers the very bottom of the image.
 
Credit: NASA, @europeanspaceagency/Andreas Mogensen
 
#NASA #InternationalSpaceStation #Space #Moon #Photography #Astrophotography
A red sprite, a colorful burst of energy that appears above storms as a result of lightning activity on Earth, is pictured above the white light of an active thunderstorm as the International Space Station orbited above North America in August of 2015.

#nasa #earth #storm #thunderstorm #lightning #red #sprite #north #america #northamerica #international #space #station
Taking the sea-nic route 🌊

NASA’s Pegasus barge, carrying the massive SLS (Space Launch System) core stage, arrived at @NASAKennedy’s Complex 39 turn basin wharf in Florida on Tuesday, July 23, 2024, after journeying from the agency’s Michoud Assembly Facility in New Orleans.

The core stage is the next piece of @NASAArtemis hardware to arrive at the spaceport and will be offloaded and moved to the Vehicle Assembly Building, where it will be prepared for integration ahead of the #Artemis II launch.

Image credits: NASA/Kim Shiflett

#NASA #KennedySpaceCenter #NASAKennedy #SLS #Moon #MoonMission #Artemis #ArtemisII #Rocket #Space #RocketScience
To celebrate the 25th anniversary of its launch, NASA’s Chandra X-ray Observatory is releasing 25 never-before-seen views of a wide range of cosmic objects. These images, which all include data from Chandra, demonstrate how X-ray astronomy explores all corners of the universe. By combining X-rays from Chandra with other space-based observatories and telescopes on the ground, as many of these images do, astronomers can tackle the biggest questions and investigate long-standing mysteries across the cosmos.On July 23, 1999, the space shuttle Columbia launched into orbit carrying Chandra, which was then the heaviest payload ever carried by the shuttle. With Commander Eileen Collins at the helm, the astronauts aboard Columbia successfully deployed Chandra into its highly elliptical orbit that takes it nearly one-third of the distance to the Moon.

This image shows the Cassiopeia A supernova remnant that has been observed for more than 2 million seconds since the start of the Chandra mission in 1999. X-rays from Chandra (blue); infrared from Webb (orange, white, and blue).

Credit: X-ray: NASA/CXC/SAO; Infrared: NASA/ESA/CSA/STScI/D. Milisavljevic (Purdue Univ.), I. De Looze (UGent), T. Temim (Princeton Univ.); Image Processing: NASA/CXC/SAO/J. Major, J. Schmidt and K. Arcand
Splashdown! 👨‍🚀👨‍🚀👨‍🚀

On July 24, 1969, Apollo 11 astronauts Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin, and Michael Collins landed in the Pacific Ocean, wrapping up their eight-day mission to the Moon and back.

Armstrong and Aldrin landed on the Moon on July 20, walking on its surface for two-and-a-half hours; they collected 50 pounds (21.5 kg) of rocks and other lunar samples which we're still studying today. Apollo 11 was the first of six NASA missions to land on the Moon, paving the way for our Skylab missions, the space shuttle and the @ISS—and, ultimately, our @NASAArtemis missions for the long-term exploration of the Moon and Mars.

Image description: This photo features the Apollo 11 Command Module Columbia, a cone-shaped spacecraft with three large balloons on top, floating in the Pacific Ocean after splashdown. To its right and slightly behind it, the three members of the Apollo 11 crew sit in an oval-shaped liferaft wearing full-body isolation suits, supported by a U.S. Navy diver who is wearing a similar garment.
This is an actual photo of the coldest exoplanet ever directly imaged. It's about 12 light-years from Earth. 

Named Epsilon Indi Ac, the exoplanet has an estimated temperature of 35º F (2º C), which while around 180º F (100º C) warmer than gas giants in our solar system, is more similar to Jupiter than any other planet that has been imaged so far.

Previously imaged exoplanets tend to be young, hot exoplanets that are still radiating much of the energy from when they first formed. But as planets cool over their lifetime, they become significantly fainter and emit mostly mid-infrared light. @NASAWebb's Mid-Infrared Instrument (MIRI) is ideally suited for these kinds of detections, which provide a rare opportunity for astronomers to study the atmospheric composition of true solar system analogs.

#Webb #JamesWebbSpaceTelescope #exoplanet #discovery #science #space #NASA #JPL
iss071e256593 (July 1, 2024) --- The Milky Way appears in the vastness of space behind the dimly lit SpaceX Dragon Endeavour spacecraft docked to the Harmony module's space-facing port on the International Space Station.

#nasa #spacex #dragon #endeavour #milkyway #stars #harmony #international #space #station
NEW: Webb has snapped a shot of the coldest, most Jupiter-like exoplanet to be imaged so far. 📸

The planet, called Epsilon Indi Ab, lies about 12 light-years away from Earth. To make the discovery, Webb blocked out starlight (shown by the star symbol) with a mask called a coronagraph.

Previously, directly imaged exoplanets were often the youngest, hottest worlds. As planets cool, they become significantly fainter and more difficult to image. Most of their emission is in mid-infrared light. Luckily, Webb is ideally suited to conduct mid-infrared imaging.

With an estimated temperature of 35 degrees F (2 degrees C), Epsilon Indi Ab is just a bit warmer than the gas giants in our own solar system. With its unique properties, this intriguing world is giving astronomers a rare opportunity to study a true solar system analog. More at our link in bio!

Image description: Text on graphic reads: “Take a Look at the Coldest, Most Jupiter-Like World Beyond Our Solar System to be Imaged.” The background image shows the exoplanet Epsilon Indi Ab. The image is mostly black, with blue scale-like features apparent in the central region of the image. At the center of the image, there is a black circle, and in the center, a symbol representing a star. A small white arrow points to the star symbol, alongside the label “represents light blocked from the host star.” To the lower left of the star symbol is a fuzzy bright orange circle. A second small white arrow points to the orange circle, which is labeled as “planet Epsilon Indi Ab.”

Image credit: NASA, ESA, CSA, STScI, Elisabeth Matthews (MPIA)

#JWST #JamesWebbSpaceTelescope #Jupiter #Cold #Exoplanet #SolarSystem #Star
Welcome home, SLS!

NASA’s SLS (Space Launch System) core stage has arrived at @NASAKennedy’s Vehicle Assembly Building in Florida, where teams will integrate it with the additional #Artemis II flight hardware atop the mobile launcher for the first crewed @NASAArtemis mission to the Moon.

Image description: After completing its journey from NASA’s Michoud Assembly Facility in New Orleans aboard the Pegasus barge, teams with Exploration Ground Systems (EGS) transport the agency’s powerful SLS core stage to NASA’s Kennedy Space Center’s Vehicle Assembly Building in Florida on Tuesday, July 23, 2024.

Credit: NASA/Isaac Watson 

#NASA #KennedySpaceCenter #NASAKennedy #SLS #Moon #MoonMission #Artemis #ArtemisII #Rocket #Space #RocketScience
“Were there clues I didn’t see? …All along there was an invisible string.”

There is still little known about what makes up dark matter: “the invisible glue of the universe.” Understanding how it is distributed within a galaxy offers clues to how dark matter shapes the galaxy’s larger evolution.

Dark matter is about 27% of the universe’s mass, and even though it is invisible, scientists can observe it through its gravitational impact on observable objects. In the universe, scientists estimate there is more than five times as much dark matter as visible matter.

Computer simulations have suggested that dark matter should be piling up in galaxy centers, forming “density cusps.” However, telescopic observations indicate that dark matter may be evenly distributed throughout galaxies. The conflicting observations and models continue to puzzle astronomers.

Dark matter stretches through the universe in filaments, where its gravity gathers clusters of galaxies. Because of the way it seems to be spread through galaxy clusters, scientists study other filament-based natural structures to understand growth along paths of least resistance.

One of the Nancy Grace Roman Space Telescope’s duties is to explore the properties and effects of dark matter throughout the universe. As a new member of NASA’s team of telescopes, Roman’s mission will reflect the changing questions about our universe that NASA is exploring in the modern era.

Image Description: A cluster of galaxies fills the frame. A purple glow around the largest concentrations of galaxies indicates the distribution of dark matter.

#Space #DarkMatter #Mystery
Welcome home, SLS!

NASA’s SLS (Space Launch System) core stage has arrived at @NASAKennedy’s Vehicle Assembly Building in Florida, where teams will integrate it with the additional #Artemis II flight hardware atop the mobile launcher for the first crewed @NASAArtemis mission to the Moon.

Image description: After completing its journey from NASA’s Michoud Assembly Facility in New Orleans aboard the Pegasus barge, teams with Exploration Ground Systems (EGS) transport the agency’s powerful SLS core stage to NASA’s Kennedy Space Center’s Vehicle Assembly Building in Florida on Tuesday, July 23, 2024.

Credit: NASA/Isaac Watson 

#NASA #KennedySpaceCenter #NASAKennedy #SLS #Moon #MoonMission #Artemis #ArtemisII #Rocket #Space #RocketScience
Chk chk boom 💥 

Remnants of a su-su-su-supernova explosion 160,000 light-years away bring the light of a dying white dwarf star to help us understand our universe’s past. 

Riding on the rhythm through the eyes of the @nasachandraxray and @NASAHubble telescopes, the debris of SNR 0519 set the night alight in our neighboring galaxy — the Large Magellanic Cloud. Scientists use explosions like this one to help measure distances to galaxies across billions of light-years.

Image credit: X-ray: NASA/CXC/B. J. Williams et al.; Optical: NASA/ESA/STScI

Image description: A translucent cherry red blob floats in a dark sky packed with gleaming white and golden stars. The glossy shape is outlined by thin, more opaque red lines. A wispy ring of gray clouds tinted with green, blue and purple sits inside the supernova remnant.

#NASA #Astronomy #KPop #Supernova #Hubble #Space #Universe
Sails coming soon!

Commissioning of our Solar Sail spacecraft is underway and the project team expects to deploy the sail in the next few weeks. 

Image credit: NASA/Daniel Rutter
Learn the latest: https://go.nasa.gov/3WiTPJI

#NASA #AmesResearchCenter #Solar #SolarSail #Spacecraft #Space #Earth
Jupiter’s chaotic energy 😧⁣
 ⁣
Our Juno spacecraft captured this view of chaotic clouds and cyclonic storms in the gas giant planet’s northern hemisphere on May 12, 2024.⁣
 ⁣
Jupiter is the largest planet in our solar system. Nine spacecraft have visited Jupiter: seven flew by, and two have orbited, including our Juno mission which arrived in 2016. Stormy Jupiter is swept by over a dozen prevailing winds, some reaching up to 335 miles per hour (539 kilometers per hour) at the equator. The Great Red Spot, a swirling oval of clouds twice as wide as Earth, has been observed on the giant planet for more than 300 years!⁣
 ⁣
Citizen scientist Gary Eason made this image using raw data from the spacecraft’s JunoCam instrument, applying digital processing techniques to enhance color and clarity. Visit go.nasa.gov/junocam to learn more about JunoCam and actively participate in the mission.⁣
 ⁣
Image description: A close view of Jupiter’s northern hemisphere with swirling clouds and storms throughout in shades of white, blue and dark orange. At the center, of the image two white circular formations and a circular one just below look like a face with open mouth.⁣
 ⁣
Credit: ⁣
Image data: NASA/JPL-Caltech/SwRI/MSSS⁣
Image processing by Gary Eason © CC BY⁣
 ⁣
#NASA #Jupiter #Cloudscapes #SolarSystem #FacesInPlaces #StormClouds
Here's a look back 100 million years in time.

The light from galaxy NGC 3430 traveled that long to reach us, which means it's located 100 million light-years away!

This #HubbleFriday image shows a spiral galaxy with a bright core and a pinwheel array of arms that radiate outward, laced with dark dust lanes and blue patches of star formation.

Its distinct shape might be one reason why Hubble's namesake, the astronomer Edwin Hubble, used it to help define his classification of galaxies. A paper he published in 1926 outlined the classification of a few hundred galaxies by their appearance, as either spiral, barred spiral, lenticular, elliptical, or irregular.

This typology remained very influential. Today, astronomers classify NGC 3430 as a "SAc galaxy" – meaning that it is a spiral galaxy without a central bar of stars, but with open and clearly defined arms.

Find out more at the link in our bio!

Image description: A spiral galaxy with three prominent arms wrapping around it. The galaxy holds plenty of extra gas and dark dust between the arms. There are shining blue points throughout the arms and some patches of gas out beyond the galaxy’s edge, where stars are forming. The center of the galaxy also shines brightly. It is on a dark background where some small orange dots mark distant galaxies.

Image credit: ESA/Hubble & NASA, C. Kilpatrick

#NASA #Hubble #Friday #galaxy #space #science #stars #universe #cosmos
Timeline cleanse. ✨

The #JunoMission captured this detailed view of clouds and storms in Jupiter’s northern hemisphere during its 61st close flyby of the gas giant on May 12. It soared about 18,000 miles (29,000 km) above the planet’s cloud tops.

The area Juno flew over is known to scientists as a folded filamentary region. What is that exactly? The zonal jets that create the familiar bands in Jupiter’s clouds break down, leading to turbulent patterns and cloud structures that rapidly evolve in just a few days.

Citizen scientist Gary Eason used raw JunoCam image data to enhance the color and clarity in this image.

#Jupiter #JunoCam #SolarSystem #clouds #cyclones #science #CitizenScience #NASA #JPL

Image description and credit:
A color-enhanced image shows the northern hemisphere of Jupiter. Part of the planet takes up about three-quarters of the frame and the rest of the image is just black, depicting the darkness of space. The gas giant is covered in a haze of white, purple, pale orange, and teal swirls. Along the lower half of the planet are bands of iridescent purple and blue.

Image data: NASA/JPL-Caltech/SwRI/MSSS
Image processing by Gary Eason © CC BY
NASA astronaut and Expedition 71 Flight Engineer Tracy C. Dyson unpacks and examines research gear that is part of the BioFabrication Facility (BFF) located inside the International Space Station's Columbus laboratory module. The BFF is a research device being tested for its ability to print organ-like tissues in microgravity.

#nasa #astronaut #science #research #esa #columbus #laboratory #international #space #station
NASA’s Juno mission captures the colorful and chaotic clouds of Jupiter! During its 61st close flyby of Jupiter on May 12, 2024, NASA’s Juno spacecraft captured this color-enhanced view of the giant planet’s northern hemisphere. It provides a detailed view of chaotic clouds and cyclonic storms in an area known to scientists as a folded filamentary region. In these regions, the zonal jets that create the familiar banded patterns in Jupiter’s clouds break down, leading to turbulent patterns and cloud structures that rapidly evolve over the course of only a few days.

Citizen scientist Gary Eason made this image using raw data from the JunoCam instrument, applying digital processing techniques to enhance color and clarity. At the time the raw image was taken, the Juno spacecraft was about 18,000 miles (29,000 kilometers) above Jupiter’s cloud tops, at a latitude of about 68 degrees north of the equator.

Image credit: NASA/JPL-Caltech/SwRI/MSSS; Image processing by Gary Eason © CC BY

#NASAMarshall #nasajuno #jupiter
Artemis II core stage arrives at KSC! In this aerial view, teams with Exploration Ground Systems (EGS) transport the agency’s powerful SLS (Space Launch System) core stage to the Vehicle Assembly Building at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida on Wednesday, July 24, 2024, after it completed the journey from NASA’s Michoud Assembly Facility in New Orleans aboard the Pegasus barge. In the coming months, SLS will be prepared for integration atop the mobile launcher ahead of the Artemis II launch.

Credit: NASA/Jamie Peer and Michael Downs

#Artemis #NASAMarshall #Space #NASASLS #NASA #NASAMichoud #NASAKennedy
What’s on this reserve? 🔎

At the far southern reaches of South America, the Costa Atlántica Reserve in Argentina is a stretch of tidal flats, shoals, and beaches that serves as a refuge for migratory shorebirds and many forms of aquatic life. 

#Landsat 9 captured this image on February 20. The reserve extends for 140 miles along the eastern shore of Tierra del Fuego. Tidal habitats along the coast support about 135 species of birds, while crustaceans, mollusks, fish, and cetaceans feed in the coastal waters. 

The south coast of the San Sebastián Bay is an important area for the red knot, a shorebird that migrates between southern Argentina and the Canadian Arctic. One particular red knot, B95, earned the nickname “Moonbird” because it is estimated to have flown the distance of the Earth to the Moon and halfway back during its exceptionally long life.

Image description: 
A satellite image of the Costa Atlántica Reserve. The land and water meet on a diagonal line starting from the top right corner of the image. The Atlantic Ocean is on the right, with increasingly darker blue waters further away from land (toward the right side of the image). Tierra del Fuego is the land left of the diagonal. Near the top left corner, the diagonal is interrupted as the land curves inward, San Sebastian Bay. The waters of the bay are colored a light blue. The land appears in shades of green and brown. On the left of the image there are several white spots, which are clouds. In the bottom right corner of the image is Río Grande. 

#TierradelFuego #Argentina #Earth #NASA
Hubble captures infant stars transforming a nebula! This NASA/ESA Hubble Space Telescope image presents a visually striking collection of interstellar gas and dust. Named RCW 7, the nebula is located just over 5,300 light-years from Earth in the constellation Puppis.

Nebulae are areas rich in the raw material needed to form new stars. Under the influence of gravity, parts of these molecular clouds collapse until they coalesce into very young, developing stars, called protostars, which are still surrounded by spinning discs of leftover gas and dust. The protostars forming in RCW 7 are particularly massive, giving off strongly ionizing radiation and fierce stellar winds that transformed the nebula into a H II region.

Credit: ESA/Hubble & NASA, J. Tan (Chal

#NASAMarshall #NASA #astrophysics #NASA #nebula #ESA #NASAGoddard
Our home galaxy, the Milky Way, is a lot like this other galaxy pictured here: NGC 6744.

This #HubbleClassic view shows another spiral galaxy that has a prominent central region full of older, yellow stars – just like we do. It also has dusty spiral arms interlaced with regions of pink and blue. The blue sites are full of young star clusters, while the pink ones are regions of active star formation.

However, NGC 6744 spans over 200,000 light-years across. That's twice as big as the Milky Way's diameter!

Image description: A large spiral galaxy fills the image, with its bright yellow core taking up most of the center-right portion. Short spiraling arms full of dark brown dust and pink patches of star formation extend out from the center. Foreground stars are scattered throughout the image.

Image credit: ESA/Hubble & NASA; Acknowledgment: Judy Schmidt

#NASA #Hubble #classic #galaxy #space #science #astronomy #stars #universe
The Starliner spacecraft on NASA's Boeing Crew Flight Test is pictured docked to the Harmony module's forward port as the International Space Station orbited 262 miles above Egypt's Mediterranean coast.

#nasa #boeing #starliner #crew #flight #test #crewflighttest #cft #egypt #earth #mediterranean #sea #coast #harmony #international #space #station
Surf’s up! 🌊 

Did you know that our Milky Way may have started out looking like a “surfboard”? Earlier this year, Webb found that the most common galaxies in the early universe may have been elongated in shape, like “pool noodles” and “surfboards."

As the #Olympics surfing events heat up today, we’re wishing all competitors the best of luck. We hope the waves are easier to ride than galactic tides!

Read more at the link in our Story.

Credits: NASA, ESA, CSA, STScI, Steve Finkelstein (UT Austin), Micaela Bagley (UT Austin), Rebecca Larson (UT Austin)

Image description: The first row of this graphic shows three galaxies labeled “elongated appearance.” All three galaxies appear to form thin lines that take up less than a quarter of the frame. The galaxy on the left has a horizontal thin line with two dots beneath it; the center galaxy is a short line from top left to bottom right made up of individual dots; the right galaxy is the longest line and angles from top left to bottom right. The second row of this graphic highlights yet another elongated galaxy that has been magnified. It has a white line at the center that has a pink outline that transitions into bluish edges at far left and right. A thin white line from this galaxy points to its appearance in a broader galaxy field on the right. Underneath these images is headline text reading: “Webb Finds Early Galaxies Often Looked Like “‘Surfboards,’ ‘Pool Noodles.’”

#JWST #MilkyWay #Surfboard #Paris2024 #Surfing #Galaxies
To celebrate the 25th anniversary of its launch, NASA’s Chandra X-ray Observatory is releasing 25 never-before-seen views of a wide range of cosmic objects.These images, which all include data from Chandra, demonstrate how X-ray astronomy explores all corners of the universe. By combining X-rays from Chandra with other space-based observatories and telescopes on the ground, as many of these images do, astronomers can tackle the biggest questions and investigate long-standing mysteries across the cosmos.

On July 23, 1999, the space shuttle Columbia launched into orbit carrying Chandra, which was then the heaviest payload ever carried by the shuttle. With Commander Eileen Collins at the helm, the astronauts aboard Columbia successfully deployed Chandra into its highly elliptical orbit that takes it nearly one-third of the distance to the Moon.

This image shows the region of star formation that contains the Pillars of Creation, which was made famous by the Hubble Space Telescope. Chandra detects X-rays from young stars in the region, including one embedded in a pillar. X-rays from Chandra (red and blue); infrared image from Webb (red, green, and blue)

Credit: X-ray: NASA/CXO/SAO; Infrared: NASA/ESA/CSA/STScI; Image processing: NASA/CXC/SAO/L. Frattare

#NASAMarshall #NASA #astrophysics #NASAChandra #NASA
In this #NASAStennisHistory image, NASA Stennis conducts the final test of a space shuttle main engine on July 29, 2009, on the center's A-2 Test Stand. The Space Shuttle Program concluded two years later with the STS-135 shuttle mission using the orbiter Atlantis, which launched on July 8, 2011, and landed 13 days later on July 21.
Telescope teamwork ✅

Three observatories tag-teamed to gather data for this spectacular image of the galaxy cluster MACS J0416.

Hubble and @NASAWebb captured the galaxies seen clustered together, while @NASAChandraXRay detected the superheated gas that these galaxies are immersed in, seen in purple.

Held together by gravity, galaxy clusters like this one can contain hundreds or even thousands of individual galaxies. Each of those galaxies is home to millions or billions of stars!

Image description: This image shows the distant galaxy cluster known as MACS J0416. The blackness of space is packed with glowing dots and tiny shapes, in whites, purples, oranges, golds, and reds, each a distinct galaxy. Upon close inspection the spiraling arms of some of the seemingly tiny galaxies are revealed in this highly detailed image. Gently arched across the middle of the frame is a soft band of purple, which is a reservoir of superheated gas detected by Chandra.

Image credit: X-ray: NASA/CXC/SAO/G. Ogrean et al.; Optical/Infrared: (Hubble) NASA/ESA/STScI; IR: (JWST) NASA/ESA/CSA/STScI/Jose M. Diego (IFCA), Jordan C. J. D’Silva (UWA), Anton M. Koekemoer (STScI), Jake Summers (ASU), Rogier Windhorst (ASU), Haojing Yan (University of Missouri)

#NASA #Hubble #Chandra #Webb #galaxy #space #science #astronomy #cosmos #STEM
Wheel, wheel, wheel…wheel.

These prototype wheels were designed for a cool environment: the Moon. Apollo 15 was the first mission to drive the Lunar Roving Vehicle off-world #OTD in 1971. 

Image credit: NASA
Learn more: https://go.nasa.gov/3Wo6fjs

#NASA #Moon #Rover #Lunar #Wheels #LunarRovingVehicle #Apollo
To celebrate the 25th anniversary of its launch, NASA’s Chandra X-ray Observatory is releasing 25 never-before-seen views of a wide range of cosmic objects.These images, which all include data from Chandra, demonstrate how X-ray astronomy explores all corners of the universe. By combining X-rays from Chandra with other space-based observatories and telescopes on the ground, as many of these images do, astronomers can tackle the biggest questions and investigate long-standing mysteries across the cosmos.

On July 23, 1999, the space shuttle Columbia launched into orbit carrying Chandra, which was then the heaviest payload ever carried by the shuttle. With Commander Eileen Collins at the helm, the astronauts aboard Columbia successfully deployed Chandra into its highly elliptical orbit that takes it nearly one-third of the distance to the Moon.

The Crab Nebula is the result of a bright supernova explosion witnessed by Chinese and other astronomers in 1054 A.D. Chandra sees the rings around the pulsar and the jets blasting into space. X-rays from Chandra (blue-violet and white) and IXPE (purple); optical from Hubble (red, green, and blue)

Credit: X-ray: (Chandra) NASA/CXC/SAO, (IXPE) NASA/MSFC; Optical: NASA/ESA/STScI; Image Processing: NASA/CXC/SAO/J. Schmidt, K. Arcand, and L. Frattare

#NASAMarshall #NASA #astrophysics #NASAChandra #NASA #nebula
Watashi wa star ✨
 
This light-year-long knot of interstellar gas and dust that looks a little like a caterpillar is a newborn star – a protostar.
 
Stars form in large clouds of gas and dust called molecular clouds. These massive clouds are cold and clump up. Eventually, gravity causes some of these clumps to collapse. When this happens, friction causes the material to heat up, eventually leading to the creation of a protostar.
 
A protostar hasn’t yet developed the energy-generating capabilities of a star like the Sun, which fuses hydrogen into helium in its core. Instead, a protostar’s energy comes from the heat released created by that initial collapse. In time, the protostar will develop the ability to generate energy like other Sun-like stars.
 
Image description: Many golden stars stud the darkness of space. Some of the stars have four diffraction spikes. At the center is a long, bright blue cloud of gas and dust with a bright core.
 
Credit: NASA, @europeanspaceagency, and the @nasahubble Heritage Team (STScI/AURA)
 
#NASA #Stars #Space #Creation #Hubble
Pommel horse and equestrian events have us thinking of the Horsehead Nebula – a medal-worthy shot from Hubble of a massive cloud of gas and dust. 🐴

Located about 1,600 light-years away, it's a popular target for amateur and professional astronomers alike.

Hubble observed the Horsehead in infrared light to capture this iconic image, used to mark the mission's 23rd anniversary back in 2013. The rich tapestry of nebula pops out prominently against some of our Milky Way Galaxy's stars and distant galaxies beyond our own, all easily visible in infrared light.

Image description: A massive cloud of gas and dust is seen in dark, dusty red, with its outer portions a translucent, ethereal gray. Several stars and distant galaxies are scattered throughout the image.

Image credit: NASA/ESA/Hubble Heritage Team

#NASA #Hubble #Olympics #equestrian #pommelhorse #horse #sports #science #space #astronomy
What's up in August? 

The Perseid meteor shower! The meteor shower peaks this month. Provided you have clear skies, viewing conditions will be favorable this year. The Perseids are best viewed in the Northern Hemisphere during the pre-dawn hours. 

Image credit: NASA/Preston Dyches 
Learn more: https://go.nasa.gov/4c9B8Ot 

#NASA #AmesResearchCenter #Meteor #Perseid #MeteorShower #Stargazing #Stars #Sky
In our latest #NASAStennisSpeaks feature, NASA Stennis Office of Communications Director Pamela Covington shares an update about @nasa's retirement of NASA TV and its transition to the ad-free, on-demand streaming service, NASA+. Tune in at: https://plus.nasa.gov/
We think the apple's rotten right to the core 🍏
 
The eerie glow of a dead star, which exploded long ago in a supernova, reveals itself in this @NASAHubble image of the Crab Nebula. But don't be fooled: the ghoulish-looking object still has a pulse. Buried at the center is the star's tell-tale heart, which beats with rhythmic precision.
 
The "heart" is the crushed core of the exploded star. Known as a neutron star, it has the same mass as the Sun, but is squeezed into an ultra-dense sphere that is only a few miles across. The tiny powerhouse is the bright star-like object in the center of the image.
 
Image description: Swirls of bright green hues fill this view of space. In the center, the bright “heart” of the Crab Nebula can be seen. Stars dot the sky in the distance.
 
Credit: NASA and ESA

#NASA #Space #Astronomy #Hubble #CrabNebula #Green #BratSummer #Brat
Small but mighty 💪

The diminutive galaxy in this new #HubbleFriday view, IC 3430, is classified as a dwarf galaxy. It's made up of less than a billion stars – small, compared to a large galaxy!

However, that amount of stars is often still enough for dwarf galaxies to reproduce (in miniature!) the same forms as larger galaxies. There are dwarf elliptical galaxies, like IC 3430, along with dwarf spheroidal galaxies and dwarf spiral galaxies.

IC 3430 is located about 45 million light-years away, in the constellation Virgo.

Read more about it at the link in our bio!

Image description: A relatively small, oval-shaped galaxy, tilted diagonally. Its center glows brightly and dims gradually to its edge. Its center also holds a few small, blue, glowing spots where stars are forming and dark wisps of dust that cross the galaxy. The image has a black background on which many background galaxies and foreground stars are visible.

Image credit: ESA/Hubble & NASA, M. Sun

#NASA #Hubble #Friday #galaxy #space #science #astronomy #universe #cosmos
Summer in New England 🛥️
A combination of sunglint and a phytoplankton bloom made ship wakes especially visible when #Landsat 8 took this image.

The pear-shaped island is Block Island, which is one of the archipelago of islands off the coast of New England in the Atlantic. Southeast of the island, five wind turbines form a line in the water. Several ships are also visible in the image, which was taken on July 3, 2024. 

Image description:
Most of this satellite image is blue and green. On the right is a pear-shaped island that is covered in green vegetation and ringed with sandy beaches. Green and teal swirl in the water. There are faint streaks in the water. 

#Earth #NASA #Ocean #AtlanticOcean #NewEngland #NASA
Nicknamed the “Cosmic Cliffs,” this region of space is located about 7,600 light-years from Earth in the Carina Nebula. This image combines X-ray light from Chandra with infrared light from @NASAWebb, showing us a blazing landscape of star formation roughly 52 light-years across.

📱Get this image as new #background #wallpaper for your phone at the link in our profile!

X-ray (Chandra): NASA/CXC/Ludwig Maximilian Univ./T. Preibisch et al.;
Infrared (Webb): NASA/ESA/CSA/STScI;
Image processing: NASA/CXC/SAO/N. Wolk

#beautiful #astronomy #space #telescope #stars #science #chandra25
NASA, Northrop Grumman, and SpaceX are targeting 11:29 a.m. EDT on Saturday, Aug. 3, for the next launch to deliver science investigations, supplies, and equipment to the International Space Station. This launch is the 21st Northrop Grumman commercial resupply services mission to the orbital laboratory for the agency.

Pictured above, the Cygnus space freighter, packed with more than 8,200 pounds of science experiments, crew supplies, and station hardware, is pictured in the grips of the Canadarm2 robotic arm after its capture on Feb. 2, 2024. Featured prominently on Cygnus, are its two cymbal-shaped UltraFlex solar arrays.

#nasa #csa #northropgrumman #cygnus #cargo #craft #international #space #station
Supercomputing is getting bigger!

We’ll be hosting supercomputing resources for the University of California, Berkeley (@ucberkeleyofficial) as part of our expanding partnership with the university, complementing the proposed UC Berkeley Space Center coming to NASA Research Park. 

Image credit: NASA/Michelle Moyer
Learn more:https://go.nasa.gov/3ywfwxO 

#NASA #AmesResearchCenter #Supercomputer #Technology #Berkeley #UCB #Computing
NASA additive manufacturing project shapes future for agency and industry rocket makers! The widespread commercial adoption of additive manufacturing technologies, commonly known as 3D printing, is no surprise to design engineers at NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama whose research created stronger, lighter weight materials and new manufacturing processes to make rocket parts.

NASA’s RAMPT (Rapid Analysis and Manufacturing Propulsion Technology) project is on the cutting-edge of additive manufacturing – helping the agency and industry produce new alloys and additively manufactured parts, commonly referred to as 3D printing, according to Paul Gradl, the project’s co-principal investigator at NASA Marshall.

This image shows a hot-fire test at NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama. This 2,000-pound-force coupled thrust chamber assembly features a NASA HR-1 alloy nozzle. Manufacturing the hardware requires the directed energy deposition process with composite-overwrap for structural support, reducing weight by 40%. Industry, academic, and government partners are working with RAMPT engineers at Marshall and other NASA field centers to advance this revolutionary technology.

Image credit: NASA

#NASAMarshall #NASA #3dprinting #RAMPT
Measuring the distance to truly remote objects like galaxies, quasars, and galaxy clusters is a crucial task in astrophysics, particularly when it comes to studying the early universe, but it’s a difficult one to complete. We can only measure the distances to a few nearby objects like the Sun, planets, and some nearby stars directly. Beyond that, astronomers need to use various indirect methods; one of the most important examines Type Ia supernovae, and this is where the NASA/ESA Hubble Space Telescope excels.

NGC 3810, the galaxy featured in this image, was the host of a Type Ia supernova in 2022. Type Ia supernovae are the result of a white dwarf exploding, and their peak brightness is very consistent. This attribute allows astronomers to use Type Ia supernovae to measure distances: we know how bright a Type Ia supernova should be, so we can tell how far away it must be by how dim it appears. One snag with this method is intergalactic dust, because intergalactic dust blocks some of the supernova’s light. Hubble’s unique capabilities offer them a clever way of doing this.Astronomers use Hubble to take images of the same Type Ia supernovae in ultraviolet light, which the dust almost completely blocks out, and in infrared light, which passes through dust nearly unaffected. By carefully noting how much light comes through at each wavelength, astronomers can determine how much dust lies between Hubble and the supernova, letting them confidently calibrate the relationship between a supernova’s brightness and its distance.

Credit: ESA/Hubble & NASA, D. Sand, R. J. Foley

#NASAMarshall #NASA #astrophysics #NASA #galaxy #ESA #NASAGoddard
To celebrate the 25th anniversary of its launch, NASA’s Chandra X-ray Observatory is releasing 25 never-before-seen views of a wide range of cosmic objects.

These images, which all include data from Chandra, demonstrate how X-ray astronomy explores all corners of the universe. By combining X-rays from Chandra with other space-based observatories and telescopes on the ground, as many of these images do, astronomers can tackle the biggest questions and investigate long-standing mysteries across the cosmos.

On July 23, 1999, the space shuttle Columbia launched into orbit carrying Chandra, which was then the heaviest payload ever carried by the shuttle. With Commander Eileen Collins at the helm, the astronauts aboard Columbia successfully deployed Chandra into its highly elliptical orbit that takes it nearly one-third of the distance to the Moon.

The Crab Nebula is the result of a bright supernova explosion witnessed by Chinese and other astronomers in 1054 A.D. Chandra sees the rings around the pulsar and the jets blasting into space. X-rays from Chandra (blue-violet and white) and IXPE (purple); optical from Hubble (red, green, and blue)

Credit: X-ray: (Chandra) NASA/CXC/SAO, (IXPE) NASA/MSFC; Optical: NASA/ESA/STScI; Image Processing: NASA/CXC/SAO/J. Schmidt, K. Arcand, and L. Frattare

#NASAMarshall #NASA #astrophysics #NASAChandra #NASA #Nebula #Hubble #NASAGoddard
BIG MOOD
 
Saturn is a gas giant whose disposition appears to change with the view. Its atmosphere rages with thunderous and hurricane-like storms. Its majestic rings spin a tale of ancient collisions and cataclysms. And its moons may hold secrets to the origins of life.
 
This image was acquired with the Cassini spacecraft's wide-angle camera on Jan. 30, 2007, at a distance of approximately 1.1 million kilometers (700,000 miles) from Saturn. Each pixel in this image represents a width of 60 kilometers, or 38 miles. This view looks toward the lit side of the rings from about 28 degrees below the ring plane.
 
Image description: A black-and-white image of Saturn. The planet is lit on one side by the Sun, detailing the stripes of the turbulent storms on the planet. Rings can be seen from the top coming down along the side of the profile of the planet.
 
Credit: NASA/JPL/Space Science Institute
 
#NASA #Space #Cassini #Saturn #SolarSystem #BigMood
And for Hubble's next event: cosmic gymnastics! 🤸‍♀️

This image shows the Cartwheel Galaxy, on the right. The interesting shape of this galaxy was caused by a galactic collision.

A smaller galaxy plowed through a large disk galaxy, creating shock waves of gas and dust that sparked regions of intense star formation (appearing blue). The outer ring of the galaxy shows the shock wave's leading edge.

The Cartwheel Galaxy is located about 500 million light-years away!

Image description: On the right, a massive galaxy is seen as a bright ring of blue surrounding a smaller, yellowish galactic center, bridged by ethereal, wispy regions of stars, gas and dust. On its left, two smaller galaxies shine – the one on top is bright blue with star formation, and the one beneath it is a yellowish spiral. 

Image credit: ESA/Hubble

#NASA #Hubble #Olympics #gymnastics #galaxy #space #science #astronomy #stars
Keeping current 🌊

We have a new way to track and measure river flow using a small, piloted drone featuring thermal and visible cameras, a laser to measure altitude, navigation sensors, an onboard computer, and a wireless communications system. The project was recently tested on the Sacramento River in Northern California. 

Image credit: NASA/Massimo Vespignani
Learn more: LINK

#NASA #AmesResearchCenter #River #Drone #Stream #Water #Sacramento
“The Perseids is the best annual meteor shower for the casual stargazer,” said Bill Cooke, who leads NASA’s Meteoroid Environment Office at #NASAMarshall. ☄️ 

According to Bill, the Perseid maximum will occur on the night of Aug. 11 and the pre-dawn hours of Aug. 12. You’ll start seeing meteors from the shower around 11 p.m. local time and the rates will increase until dawn.

The best way to see the Perseids is to find the darkest possible sky. Allow about 45 minutes for your eyes to adjust to the dark. Lie on your back and look straight up.

📷 Visual description: In this 30 second exposure, a meteor streaks across the sky during the annual Perseid meteor shower, Wednesday, Aug. 11, 2021, in Spruce Knob, West Virginia. Photo Credit: (NASA/Bill Ingalls)

#Perseids #MeteorShower #WatchTheSkies #Skywatching #Space #telescopes #Skywatchers #NASA #Meteors #PerseidMeteorShower #NASAMarshall
NASA Stennis Director John Bailey announced Aug. 2 that longtime propulsion engineer/manager Christine Powell has been selected as deputy director of the center, effective Aug. 12.

Powell currently serves as manager of the NASA Rocket Propulsion Test Program Office located at NASA Stennis. In that role, she oversees propulsion assets valued at more than $3.5 billion across the agency, management of the program’s operations and annual $48 million budget, and strategic planning for @nasa's key objectives.

Powell is the first woman to be selected as NASA Stennis deputy director. She will be responsible, with the center director, for coordinating all of NASA Stennis’ rocket propulsion test capabilities, as well as managing the overall site. NASA Stennis is the nation’s largest – and premier – propulsion test site, supporting test operations for both the government and commercial aerospace companies. It also serves as a regional aerospace and technology hub, home to more than 50 resident agencies, companies, organizations, and institutions.

A native of Biloxi, Mississippi, Powell began her 33-year agency career at NASA Stennis, arriving at the south Mississippi center as an intern in 1991. Following her internship, she served as an instrumentation engineer and systems integration engineer before moving into leadership positions beginning in 2004. Powell subsequently served in various roles, including as site representative to the NASA Exploration Systems Mission Directorate, lead of the NASA Stennis Systems and Test Integration Branch, chief of the NASA Stennis Systems Engineering Branch, and assistant director of the Engineering and Test Directorate. She also led the NASA Stennis Systems Engineering and Project Management Leadership Development Program and was the NASA Stennis Advocate for the Agency’s Systems and Engineering Leadership Program. Powell assumed leadership of the Rocket Propulsion Test Program Office in May 2021.

Powell has received numerous recognitions during her career, including two NASA Exceptional Achievement Medals. She is a graduate of Mississippi State University and the University of New Orleans.
Vamo’ a tirarno’ un selfi, say “cheese” 📸⁣
⁣
Perseverance Mars rover took this selfie on July 23, 2024: the 1,218th Martian day, or sol, of the mission.⁣
 ⁣
To the left of the rover, near the center of the image, is the arrowhead-shaped rock nicknamed “Cheyava Falls,” which has features that may have clues to whether Mars was home to microscopic life in the distant past. The small dark hole in the rock is where Perseverance took a core sample, which is now in a sample tube stored in the rover’s belly. The white patch to the right of the hole is where the rover used an abrasion tool to clear away the top surface, allowing science instruments to study the rock’s composition.⁣
 ⁣
Measuring 3.2 feet by 2 feet (1 meter by 0.6 meters) and named after a Grand Canyon waterfall, Cheyava Falls lies at the northern edge of an ancient river valley that was carved by water rushing into Jezero Crater long ago. The selfie is composed of 62 images taken by the WATSON (Wide Angle Topographic Sensor for Operations and eNgineering) camera on the end of the rover’s robotic arm. The images were stitched together after being sent back to Earth.⁣
 ⁣
Image description:⁣
A selfie that the NASA Perseverance Mars rover took of itself as it stood next to its workspace - a rock named “Cheyava Falls.” The rover looks quite large and stoic, amongst other rocks and pebbles.⁣
 ⁣
Credit: NASA/JPL-Caltech/MSSS⁣
 ⁣
#NASA #Mars #Perseverance #SolarSystem #Rover #Selfie #Space #Robotics
Roughly 1.7 light-years across, planetary nebula Hb 5 is located about 5,500 light-years from Earth. This multiwavelength image shows X-rays from Chandra in blue and white, optical light from @NASAHubble in red, purple, and blue, and radio light from @alma.observatory in yellow and white.

🖼️Get this image as #wallpaper for your phone at the link in our profile! It’s totally free — no sign-up required!

X-ray: NASA/CXC/SAO; Optical: NASA/ESA/STScI; Radio: NSF/ESO/NRAO/ALMA/RIT (P. Moraga Baez, J. Kastner); Image Processing: NASA/CXC/SAO/K. Arcand, J. Major

#stars #space #nebula #beautiful #chandra25
Curiosity leads to innovation

The aptly named Mars rover landed on the red planet #OTD in 2012 and has been exploring ever since. 

Image credit: NASA/JPL-Caltech/MSSS
Learn more: https://go.nasa.gov/3SlKOOQ

#NASA #AmesResearchCenter #Mars #RedPlanet #MarsRover #Curiosity #Rover
What’s your ETA?⁣
 ⁣
Eta Carinae may be about to explode, but no one knows when. It could be in the relatively near future, though (astronomically speaking) that may be a million years away. With a mass about 100 times greater than our Sun, Eta Carinae makes an excellent candidate for a full-blown supernova, or the explosion of a star.⁣
 ⁣
The fireworks started in the 1840s when Eta Carinae went through a titanic outburst in Earth’s skies, called the Great Eruption, making it the second-brightest star visible for over a decade. Eta Carinae, in fact, was so bright that for a time it became an important navigational star for mariners in the southern seas. It is also the only star currently thought to emit natural laser light.⁣
 ⁣
Image description:⁣
Two bulbous shapes glow in the center. Shades of gas in blues and purples radiate near the center, while fuchsias, reds, and pinks surround the outer edges. Stars dot the background.⁣
 ⁣
Credit: NASA, ESA, N. Smith (University of Arizona) and J. Morse (BoldlyGo Institute)⁣
 ⁣
#NASA #Space #Nebula #Stars #Eta #Carinae #Supernova
The ultimate #Olympics weightlifting event? Space dumbbell.

Released for Hubble's 34th anniversary this year, this image of the Little Dumbbell Nebula shows a two-lobed structure of colorful, glowing gases.

These gases are the expanding shell of an aging star, located about 3,400 light-years from Earth.

Image description: Taking up most of the image, is a multi-colored nebula in shades of blue, pink, yellow, orange, purple, and white. It appears as two translucent orbs attached by a white band.

Image credit: NASA, ESA, STScI

#NASA #Hubble #Olympics2024 #weightlifting #sports #nebula #space #stars #science
Time for a resupply 📦

Northrop Grumman’s Cygnus spacecraft, atop a SpaceX 9 Falcon rocket, soars from Space Launch Complex 40 at Cape Canaveral Space Force Station in Florida on Sunday, Aug. 4, 2024, for the 21st Northrop Grumman commercial resupply mission for @nasa.

Two days later, NASA astronaut Matthew Dominick used the Canadarm2 robotic arm to capture Cygnus at 3:11 a.m. EDT on Tuesday, August 6, as the @iss was orbiting 260 miles over the South Atlantic Ocean.

Image description: A black and white SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket lifts off from the launch pad, smoke and fire billowing out towards the left side of the image on a cloudy day in Florida.

Image credit: SpaceX

#NASA #SpaceX #KennedySpaceCenter #Rocket #Launch #InternationalSpaceStation
Technicians at @nasakennedy recently moved NASA's Europa Clipper spacecraft inside the Payload Hazardous Servicing Facility to accommodate the installation of its five-panel solar array.

The huge arrays – spanning more than 100 feet when fully deployed, or about the length of a basketball court – will collect sunlight to power the spacecraft as it flies multiple times around Jupiter’s icy moon, #Europa, conducting science investigations to determine its potential to support life.

#EuropaClipper #NASA #NASAKennedy #NASAMarshall #Jupiter #IcyMoon #SpaceExploration #Planet #PlanetaryMissions
Looking good, feline great 🐱
 
Though the Cat’s Eye nebula (NGC 6543) was one of the first planetary nebulae to be discovered, it is one of the meow-st complex ones ever seen. @nasahubble captured its complexities in great detail here, highlighting a bullseye pattern of eleven or more concentric rings, or shells. Each ‘ring’ is actually the edge of a spherical bubble seen projected onto the sky. Observations suggest the star ejected its mass in a series of pulses at 1,500-year intervals. These convulsions created dust shells, each of which contain as much mass as all the planets in our solar system combined.
 
Planetary nebulae are one cat-egory of nebulae. They got their name because when they were first observed through early telescopes, they resembled planets. However, a planetary nebula is the final stage in the evolution of a star that is similar to our Sun.
 
Several explanations have been proposed for the bullseye patterns seen around planetary nebulae like the Cat’s Eye, including: cycles of magnetic activity somewhat like the Sun's sunspot cycle; the action of a companion star orbiting around the dying star; and stellar pulsations. Another school of thought is that the material is ejected smoothly from the star, and the rings are created later due to waves forming in the outflowing material. Further observations and more theoretical studies are needed to decide between these and other purr-tential explanations.
 
Image description: A nebula that is shaped like a cat’s eye. There is a bright pinpoint of light at the center. As you move outward from the center, there are bubbles of dust; the centermost one is blue. These shells appear as concentric rings at the edges of the nebula, looking much like the layers of an onion cut in half.
 
Credit: NASA, ESA, HEIC, and The Hubble Heritage Team (STScI/AURA)
 
#InternationalCatDay #NASA #Hubble #Telescope #Nebula
Venus, I don't know her...

The second of the Pioneer Venus spacecraft launched #OTD in 1978, and thanks to the data collected while approaching the surface of this fiery planet, we know much more about its atmosphere. 

Image credit: NASA/JPL-Caltech
Learn more: https://go.nasa.gov/3Sn32j3

#NASA #AmesResearchCenter #Venus #Probe #Mission #Pioneer
On the edge of the @nasauniverse 🌌

Astronomers nicknamed this region of star formation the “Cosmic Cliffs,” which is found in the nearby Carina Nebula located about 7,600 light-years from Earth. This image combines X-ray light from @nasachandraxray with infrared light from @NASAWebb, and was released as part of the #Chandra25 celebration.

Visual Description:
This composite image features two star clusters, viewed through a churning tunnel of golden cloud. The cloud creates a border around the entire image, like a thick swirling smoke ring. Beyond it, in the open center, is a vast field of neon purple specks. These specks are young stars observed by Chandra. Within the central field, two cluster groupings are suggested by separate swirls of faint, steel blue mist. One sits near our upper right. The other is near the bottom left, partially obscured by the golden yellow ring cloud.

Credit: X-ray: NASA/CXC/Ludwig Maximilian Univ./T. Preibisch et al.; Infrared: NASA/ESA/CSA/STScI; Image processing: NASA/CXC/SAO/N. Wolk

#NASA #NASAMarshall #Chandra #NASAChandra #ChandraXRayObservatory #Telescopes #Space #Universe
Supernova sleuthing 🕵

Hubble captured a supernova, or a star's explosive death, in the galaxy LEDA 857074. It can be seen as the bright dot of light near the right of the galaxy's central bar.

As evidenced by this #HubbleFriday image, Hubble's space-based vantage point gives it the unique ability to study supernovae that are billions of light years away and difficult for other telescopes to observe. A supernova image from the ground usually blends in with the image of its host galaxy, but Hubble can distinguish a supernova’s light from its host galaxy’s, measuring the supernova directly.

Discover more about this view at the link in our bio!

Image description: A close-in view of a barred spiral galaxy. A bright, glowing bar crosses the center of the galaxy, with blurred spiral arms curving away from its ends and continuing out of view. Bright points of light that indicate stars and background galaxies surround the featured barred spiral galaxy. The galaxy also hosts a bright supernova in its central bar, just right of image center.

Image credit: ESA/Hubble & NASA, R. J. Foley

#NASA #Hubble #Friday #galaxy #space #stars #science #astronomy #universe
Earth is art 🌎🎨

An @iss astronaut took this photo of the Três Marias Reservoir, which is fed by the São Francisco River, in southeast Brazil. The bold colors in this scene are from different land types.

Clays and soils in this part of Brazil make bare land bright shades of red and yellow. Green areas are covered in vegetation. An orange-tan contour line tracing the shoreline of the reservoir marks where water levels have been higher.

The lighter shades of blue on its surface are due to sunglint, an optical effect that occurs when sunlight reflects off smooth water at the same angle a sensor views it. 

Image description:
Astronaut photograph of the Três Marias Reservoir and surrounding area in southeast Brazil. The river has many branches that zig-zag through the landscape. The land is bright red and yellow in some areas. Green circles and squares indicate farmland. The São Francisco River is primarily a light blue shade. A thin orange strip of land lines the jagged edges of the river.

#Earth #NASA #Brazil #AstronautPhotography #EarthFromSpace #ISS
NGC 1850 is a bright, double star cluster located about 160,000 light-years from Earth. Delicate threads of gas (blue), created by previous supernova explosions, are interwoven amongst the stars. This image spans approximately 84 light-years from side to side.

📱Get the phone #background at the link in our profile!

X-ray (Chandra): NASA/CXC/SAO;
Optical (Hubble): NASA/ESA/STScI;
Infrared (Spitzer): NASA/JPL/CalTech/Spitzer;
Image Processing: NASA/CXC/SAO/J. Major, K. Arcand

#stars #space #beautiful #blue #sparkle
Just crawlin' along.

#OTD in 1990: The Space Shuttle Columbia (left), slated for mission STS-35, is rolled past the Space Shuttle Atlantis on its way to Launch Pad 39A atop a crawler-transporter. Atlantis, slated for mission STS-38, is parked in front of bay three of the Vehicle Assembly Building following its rollback from Launch Pad 39A for repairs to the liquid hydrogen lines, also atop a crawler-transporter. 

Image credit: NASA 

#NASA #KennedySpaceCenter #History #Space #SpaceShuttle #Rocket #Launch
A view home 🌎

This image of Earth was captured by our Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter #OTD in 2010.

Image credit: NASA/Arizona State University

#NASA #AmesResearchCenter #Lunar #Moon #Earth #LRO #Orbit #Space
A small part of the bigger picture 🎨

This @NASAHubble image revealed the subtle glow of the galaxy named IC 3430, located 45 million light-years from Earth in the constellation Virgo. This dwarf elliptical galaxy is part of the Virgo cluster, a rich collection of galaxies both large and small, many of which are very similar in type to this tiny galaxy.

Like other elliptical galaxies, IC 3430 is a smooth oval lacking arms, bars, or other distinct elements found in spiral galaxies. Additionally, IC 3430 is missing much of the gas needed to form many new stars. Its main feature is its core of hot, massive blue stars, which is an uncommon sight in elliptical galaxies like this one. These blue stars indicate recent star-forming activity, which astronomers think come from pressure from the galaxy plowing through gas within the Virgo cluster. This pressure and movement ignited what gas IC 3430 had in its core to form the newer stars.

Dwarf galaxies like this one are really just galaxies with fewer stars, usually less than a billion, but there are often still enough stars for them to reproduce the same forms as larger galaxies on a smaller scale. There are dwarf elliptical galaxies like IC 3430, dwarf irregular galaxies, dwarf spheroidal galaxies, and even dwarf spiral galaxies, many of which can be viewed in Hubble’s gallery of photos! 

Image Description: A relatively small, oval-shaped galaxy, tilted diagonally. Its center glows brightly and dims gradually to its edge. Its center also holds a few small, blue, glowing spots where stars are forming and dark wisps of dust that cross the galaxy. The image has a black background on which many background galaxies and foreground stars are visible.

#Hubble #Galaxy #Stars
Saturn and Titan, as seen by Cassini 

This view was captured #OTD in 2013, 1.1 million miles (1.7 million kilometers) from Saturn.

 Credit: NASA/JPLS-CalTech/Space Science Institute

#NASA #AmesResearchCenter #Cassini #Saturn #Titan #Space #Rings
It's a classic for a reason
 ⁣
@NASAHubble took this detailed image of a classic spiral galaxy, which is located 100 million light-years from Earth in the constellation Leo Minor. The galactic spiral holds a bright core, from which a pinwheel array of arms appears to radiate outward. Dark dust lanes and bright star-forming regions help define these spiral arms.⁣
 ⁣
The galaxy's distinct shape may be one reason why astronomer Edwin Hubble, for whom the Hubble Space Telescope was named, used it to help define his classification of galaxies. Hubble authored a paper in 1926 that outlined the classification of some four hundred galaxies by their appearance — as either spiral, barred spiral, lenticular, elliptical, or irregular.  Our Milky Way also belongs to the broad class of galaxies defined by the presence of spiral arms. Visit science.nasa.gov/galaxies to learn more!⁣
 ⁣
Image description: A large, spiral galaxy with a bright core and open, clearly defined arms is seen in deep space. Small bright blue patches of star formation are seen outside the galaxy's main spiral structure.⁣
 ⁣
Credit: @EuropeanSpaceAgency/Hubble & NASA, C. Kilpatrick⁣
 ⁣
#SpiralGalaxy #Hubble #NASA #Universe #Classics
This @nasahubble image features the galaxy LEDA 857074, located in the constellation Eridanus. LEDA 857074 is a barred spiral galaxy, with partially broken spiral arms. The image also captured a supernova, SN 2022ADQZ, shining brightly on the right side of the galaxy’s bar.

Hubble's sharp vision means that it can see supernovae that are billions of light years away and difficult for other telescopes to study. A supernova image from the ground usually blends in with the image of its host galaxy, but Hubble can distinguish a supernova’s light from its host galaxy’s, measuring the supernova directly.

Credit: ESA/Hubble & NASA, R. J. Foley

#NASA #NASAMarshall #NASAHubble #HubbleSpaceTelescope #Telescopes #Space #Galaxy #Hubble
Orange you glad you didn't keep scrolling? 🍊
 
The blue streak that snakes through this photo, taken from about 250 miles (400 km) above Earth, is known as the Orange River—the largest river in South Africa.
 
However, what probably caught your eye were the orange-red dunes surrounding it, part of the southern Kalahari Desert. Poking up through the sands are sinuous hills made up of very ancient, dark-toned rocks.
 
Image description: A photo of a reddish desert, seen from space. A deep blue river snakes from the top to the bottom of the image, with scattered hills and mountains in shades of black and white. A few small roads and settlements are barely visible in various places.
 
Credit: NASA
 
#NASA #Space #Earth #SouthAfrica #Kalahari #Desert
Houston we have a Birthday 🥳 

Floating through another year— join us in wishing @NASAAstronauts Tracy Dyson a Happy Birthday from the International Space Station (@iss)!

#NASA #Astronaut #Birthday #HappyBirthday #Space #SpaceStation 

Photo Credit: NASA
Supernova spotlight! 💡

@NASAHubble captured this image of galaxy LEDA 857074 and supernova SN 2022ADQZ shining brightly on the right side of the galaxy’s central bar. 

LEDA 857074 is a barred spiral galaxy located in the constellation Eridanus, with partially broken spiral arms. 

Astronomers detected supernova SN 2022ADQZ in late 2022. This discovery led them to look at the supernova’s host galaxy, LEDA 857074, with Hubble in early 2023. When imaged from the ground, a supernova usually blends in with the image of its host galaxy, but Hubble’s sharp vision helps it distinguish a supernova’s light from its host galaxy’s, measuring the supernova directly.

Image description:
A close-in view of a barred spiral galaxy. A bright, glowing bar crosses the center of the galaxy, with blurred spiral arms curving away from its ends and continuing out of view. Bright points of light that indicate stars and background galaxies surround the featured barred spiral galaxy. The galaxy also hosts a bright supernova in its central bar, just right of image center.

#Supernova #Galaxy #Hubble #Universe #NASA
Very demure. Very cutesy. Very mindful. ⁣
 ⁣
That’s how Saturn’s inner rings shine in diffused, scattered light as @NASASolarSystem’s Cassini spacecraft looks on the planet’s night side. The southern hemisphere is lit by sunlight reflecting off the rings, while the north portion shines much more feebly in the dim light that filters through the rings and is scattered on the top half of the planet.⁣
 ⁣
See how Saturn glows even when it’s not directly in daylight? Very considerate, very approachable, very demure.⁣
 ⁣
There may be only one star in our solar system, but everyone gets a chance to glow, ladies.⁣
 ⁣
Image description: The planet takes up the left side of the image, while its rings glow in shades of gold along the right side. The rings appear dim nearest to the planet, gradually becoming bolder near the center of the rings and fade out back into faint along the outer edges. ⁣
 ⁣
Credit: NASA/JPL/Space Science Institute⁣
 ⁣
#NASA #SolarSystem #Saturn #Rings #Planet #Demure #Cassini #Space
Tall, dark, and handsome 🌟

The nebula IRAS 05437+2502 billows out among the bright stars and dark dust clouds that surround it in this #HubbleClassic image.

It's located in the constellation of Taurus, close to the central plane of our Milky Way Galaxy.

The image of this nebula actually came about as part of a “snapshot” survey. These are observations that are fitted into Hubble’s busy schedule if and when possible. Because of this, the nebula hasn't been studied in great detail and its exact nature remains unclear.

Image description: A faintly glowing cloud of gas and dust shines in pale gray, nestled within a scattering of stars. Some stars are bright white and have diffraction spikes. 

Image credit: ESA/Hubble, R. Sahai and NASA

#NASA #Hubble #classic #nebula #stars #space #science #astronomy #universe
An aurora radiates brightly above the Indian Ocean in this photograph from the International Space Station as it soared 270 miles above the Earth's surface and about 1,280 miles southwest of Perth, Australia. In the foreground, is the Soyuz MS-25 crew ship docked to the Prichal docking module which is itself attached to the Nauka science module. The European robotic arm is also connected to Nauka.

#nasa #roscosmos #esa #earth #aurora #indianocean #indian #ocean #soyuz #prichal #nauka #international #space #station
Happy #ThrowbackThursday! 

On March 11, 2009, Space Shuttle Discovery patiently awaited its nearly 13-day mission, STS-119. This mission allowed crew members to complete 3 spacewalks, complete solar array installation to @iss, and make improvements to the water recycling system aboard the orbiting laboratory.

This mission marked the 125th flight for the Space Shuttle Program.

Image description: A nearly full Moon sets as the space shuttle Discovery sits atop Launch pad 39A at the Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Florida, Wednesday, March 11, 2009.

Image credit: NASA/Bill Ingalls 

#NASA #KennedySpaceCenter #Space #SpaceShuttle #Rocket #Launch
Wings? Who needs 'em?

Where we're going, we don't need wings. Before the shuttle, there was the M2-F1. Made of wood, an internal framework of steel tubes, and looking a bit like a bathtub sitting on a tricycle, this wing-less alternative to a capsule spacecraft had its first free flight August 16 in 1963.

Image credit: NASA
Learn more: https://go.nasa.gov/4fmKnNY

#NASA #AmesResearchCenter #Aeronautics #Spaceflight #Aircraft #Spacecraft
To celebrate the 25th anniversary of its launch, NASA’s Chandra X-ray Observatory is releasing 25 never-before-seen views of a wide range of cosmic objects.

These images, which all include data from Chandra, demonstrate how X-ray astronomy explores all corners of the universe. By combining X-rays from Chandra with other space-based observatories and telescopes on the ground, as many of these images do, astronomers can tackle the biggest questions and investigate long-standing mysteries across the cosmos.

On July 23, 1999, the space shuttle Columbia launched into orbit carrying Chandra, which was then the heaviest payload ever carried by the shuttle. With Commander Eileen Collins at the helm, the astronauts aboard Columbia successfully deployed Chandra into its highly elliptical orbit that takes it nearly one-third of the distance to the Moon.

This system contains a pair of merging galaxies in the Virgo Cluster and the multimillion-degree gas emits X-rays detected by Chandra. X-rays from Chandra (purple); optical from ESO (red, green, blue)

Credit: X-ray: NASA/CXC/SAO; Optical: ESO; Image processing: NASA/CXC/SAO/J. Major

#NASAMarshall #NASA #astrophysics #NASAChandra #NASA #galaxy
These stars are heavy metal 🤘
 
That is, they’ve got much higher proportions of metals – elements heavier than hydrogen or helium – than stars found in similar clusters. This glittery field is a 10-billion-year-old globular cluster, NGC 6496, and the stars within it are quite special. Not only do they have high metallicity, but some of them are also variable stars. This means that their brightness varies over time.
 
NGC 6496 hosts some long-period variables – giant pulsating stars whose brightness can take up to, and even over, a thousand days to change – and short-period eclipsing binaries, which dim when eclipsed by a stellar companion.
 
The way these stars’ brightness changes can reveal a lot about their mass, radius, luminosity, temperature, composition, and evolution, providing astronomers with measurements that would be difficult or even impossible to obtain through other methods.
 
Image description: Shining stars of different sizes nearly completely cover up the darkness of space in this image. Many of the stars give off an eerie blueish glow, while some are yellow. Diffraction spikes can be seen on some of the stars.
 
Credit: ESA/Hubble & NASA, Acknowledgement: Judy Schmidt
 
#NASA #Stars #Space #Universe #Hubble #HeavyMetal #Metal
If you like it, then you should've put a ring on it. 💍

The ring-like structure around this galaxy gives it an unusual shape. Thin arms extend from the ends of the galaxy's barred core to draw a near-circle around its disk.

Rings in galaxies can come in quite a few forms. For example, a lenticular galaxy contains a large central disk and lacks spiral arms, which often gives these types of galaxies ring-like shapes in their disks.

However, to be classified as a "ring galaxy" there must be a round ring of gas and star formation that's completely disconnected from the galactic center. These are believed to form during galaxy collisions.

Find out more about the galaxy in this #HubbleFriday view at the link in our bio!

Image description: An almost circular galaxy fills the image. It has a glowing bar stretching across its core; from the ends of the bar, thin spiral arms wrap around the galaxy to form a closed disk. The arms are fuzzy from the dust and stars they contain. The galaxy is on a black, mostly empty background. A few foreground stars with cross-shaped diffraction spikes can be seen, as well as some distant galaxies in the background.

Image credit: ESA/Hubble & NASA, I. Chilingarian

#NASA #Hubble #Friday #galaxy #space #stars #science #astronomy #universe
Rho Ophiuchi is a “cloud complex” — a region of space filled with nebulas, gas, and stars of different sizes & ages. One of the closest star-forming regions to Earth — roughly 390 light-years away — it’s a great place to study young stars. This image from Chandra and @NASAWebb is about 0.7 light-years across.

📱🔭Get this pic as new #background #wallpaper for your phone at the link in our profile!

X-ray (Chandra): NASA/CXC/MIT/C. Canizares;
Infrared (Webb): NASA/ESA/CSA/STScI/K. Pontoppidan;
Image Processing: NASA/ESA/STScI/Alyssa Pagan, NASA/CXC/SAO/L. Frattare and J. Major

#beautiful #nasa #science #astronomy #nebula #stars
Victory never tasted so sweet 🏆

Congratulations to team Interstellar Lab for winning NASA’s Centennial Challenge’s Deep Space Food Challenge and the $750,000 grand prize! 

Their growth system, NUCLEUS, is a modular bioregenerative system that produces fresh microgreens, vegetables, mushrooms, and insects to provide micronutrients for long-term space missions. It combines several autonomous phytotrons to create a self-sustaining food production system that minimizes water, air, and nutrient inputs.

Visual Description: Team Interstellar poses for a photo holding their big check and award. Beside the team is NASA’s Mike Green and Robyn Gatens.

📸 Credit: OSU/CFAES/Kenneth Chamberlain
Ready for its close up 🌕 

Our Cassini spacecraft capture this angle as it passed by our Moon during its closest approach with Earth #OTD in 1999. 

Image credit: NASA/JPL/Space Science Institute

#NASA #AmesResearchCenter #Moon #Lunar #Cassini #Space #Spacecraft
Hubble studies a potential galactic merger! This NASA/ESA Hubble Space Telescope image features the dwarf irregular galaxy NGC 5238, located 14.5 million light-years from Earth in the constellation Canes Venatici. Its unexciting, blob-like appearance seems to resemble an oversized star cluster more than a classic image of a galaxy. Its lackluster appearance belies its complicated structure, which is the subject of a great deal of research. As the image reveals, Hubble is able to pick out the galaxy’s countless stars, as well as its associated globular clusters — glowing, bright spots both inside and around the galaxy swarmed by even more stars.

Astronomers theorize that NGC 5238 may have had a close encounter with another galaxy as recently as a billion years ago. NGC 5238’s distorted shape provides evidence for this interaction. As the two galaxies interacted, their gravity caused distortions in the distribution of stars in each galaxy. There’s no nearby galaxy which could have caused this disturbance, so astronomers think NGC 5238 devoured a smaller satellite galaxy. Astronomers look for traces of the consumed galaxy by closely examining the population of stars in NGC 5238, a task made for Hubble’s excellent resolution.

Credit: ESA/Hubble & NASA, F. Annibali

#NASAMarshall #NASA #astrophysics #NASA #galaxy #ESA #NASAGoddard #dwarfgalaxy
To celebrate the 25th anniversary of its launch, NASA’s Chandra X-ray Observatory is releasing 25 never-before-seen views of a wide range of cosmic objects.

These images, which all include data from Chandra, demonstrate how X-ray astronomy explores all corners of the universe. By combining X-rays from Chandra with other space-based observatories and telescopes on the ground, as many of these images do, astronomers can tackle the biggest questions and investigate long-standing mysteries across the cosmos.

On July 23, 1999, the space shuttle Columbia launched into orbit carrying Chandra, which was then the heaviest payload ever carried by the shuttle. With Commander Eileen Collins at the helm, the astronauts aboard Columbia successfully deployed Chandra into its highly elliptical orbit that takes it nearly one-third of the distance to the Moon.

The Cat’s Paw is a nebula where stars are forming in the Milky Way galaxy. X-rays from Chandra show populations of young stars. X-rays from Chandra (purple); optical and H-alpha from ESO/MPG (red, green, and blue); infrared from Spitzer (red, green, and blue)

Credit: X-ray: NASA/SAO/CXC; Optical and H-alpha: ESO/MPG; Infrared: NASA/JPL-CalTech/Spitzer; Image Processing: J. Major

#NASAMarshall #NASA #astrophysics #NASAChandra #NASA #ESA #nebula
New poster just dropped ✨

The Ingenuity #MarsHelicopter made history on April 19, 2021, when it completed the first powered, controlled flight on another planet, a feat that’s been called a “Wright Brothers moment.”

Originally designed as a technology demonstration to perform no more than five test flights over 30 days, Ingenuity quickly proved it was capable of even more than NASA imagined. With each aerial success came the confidence to attempt longer, higher, faster, and more wide-ranging flights. The rotorcraft later took another assignment as an operations demonstration to serve as an aerial scout to preview possible areas for the Perseverance rover to explore.

Over the course of its mission life, the helicopter logged more than two hours in Mars’ crimson skies, covering 10.5 miles (17km), and reaching altitudes as high as 80 feet (24m).

Ingenuity flew for the last time on Jan. 18, 2024, and completed its mission on Jan. 25, 2024, after nearly three years of aerial exploration and 72 historic flights.

Ingenuity’s triumph has paved the way for next-generation aerial vehicles to explore Mars and potentially, other space destinations.

#Ingenuity #Mars #drone #rotorcraft #NationalAviationDay #NASA #JPL
NASA astronaut and Expedition 71 Flight Engineer Matthew Dominick displays a bag containing simulated lunar soil and other materials mixed with a liquid solution. He was exploring how microgravity affects the production of cement materials that could be used to build infrastructure on the lunar surface.

#nasa #astronaut #research #science #construction #cement #lunar #soil #planetary #infrastructure #international #space #station
Today, on National Aviation Day, we celebrate our Silicon Valley center’s historic legacy in aeronautics research by highlighting the early ground testing of hot wing anti-icing systems that helped improved air travel safety.

Learn more:https://go.nasa.gov/3Aw2m4E  Photo credit: National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics #nasa #nationalaviationday
The ice must flow
 
In the frigid waters of Foxe Basin near Baffin Island in the Canadian Arctic, chunks of sea ice drift through swirls of grease ice, creating patterns that remind us of the clouds of gas and dust we see throughout the universe.
 
Sea ice often starts out as grease ice, a soupy layer of tiny ice crystals on the ocean's surface. While there’s no oil involved, grease ice makes the ocean look slick. As the temperature drops, grease ice thickens and merges into slabs of more solid ice.
 
Changing ice, ocean, and atmospheric conditions in the northernmost part of Earth have a large impact on the entire planet because the Arctic region acts like Earth’s air conditioner. Much of the Sun’s energy is transported from tropical regions of our planet by winds and weather systems into the Arctic where it is then lost to space. This process helps cool the planet.
 
Landsat 7, a NASA/@USGS satellite, captured this image back on Aug. 4, 2002. Landsat 7 stopped collecting science images in January 2024, but we continue to study sea ice in other ways. Most recently, three aircraft flew over the Arctic Ocean north of Greenland, gathering observations of surface sea ice, clouds, and aerosol particles in a NASA-sponsored mission.
 
Image description: The vibrant, deep blue waters of Foxe Basin form the background of this image. Different kinds of ice swirl around at the top and left of the photo. Throughout, chunks of ice are visible, as well as more diffuse swirls that almost look like dust or sand.
 
Credit: USGS/NASA/Landsat 7
 
#NASA #Ice #Water #Arctic #Ocean #Satellite
📍VV124
➡️ 4 million light-years
🏠 Ursa Major constellation

As you #MeetYourCosmicNeighbors, take a look at this new Hubble view of a dwarf irregular galaxy.

It’s relatively isolated, and because of this, astronomers are studying this galactic neighbor to try and determine if VV124 is a relatively undisturbed, older galaxy.

Astronomy theories suggest that the lowest mass dwarf galaxies may have been some of the very first to form in our universe!

Hubble’s incredible resolution is able to detect the individual stars within VV124, even at its densest parts. Learn more about this newly released view at the link in our bio.

Image description: An oblong smudge of stars stretches diagonally across the image from upper-left to lower-right. It holds stars in blue, orange, yellow, and white. The highest concentration of stars is near the image center and toward the lower-right. This region also holds bright, light-blue clumps of stars. Star densities taper off in all directions as you move away from the core. A number of bright, distant galaxies dot the scene, with a few shining through the galaxy.

Image credit: NASA, ESA, K. Chiboucas (NOIRLab - Gemini North (HI), and M. Monelli (Instituto de Astrofisica de Canarias); Image Processing: Gladys Kober (NASA/Catholic University of America)

#NASA #Hubble #galaxy #space #stars #astronomy #universe #cosmos #telescope
NASA astronaut and Boeing Crew Flight Test Pilot Suni Williams installs the Packed Bed Reactor Experiment, experimental life support hardware, inside the Microgravity Science Glovebox located aboard the International Space Station's Destiny laboratory module.

#nasa #astronaut #crew #flight #test #pilot #science #research #destiny #laboratory #boeing
Happy launch-iversary, Voyager!

NASA’s Voyager 2 probe, aboard a Titan III-Centaur launch vehicle, lifted off on August 20, 1977. #Voyager2 is the only spacecraft to visit Uranus and Neptune and is now in interstellar space, the region outside the heliopause, or the bubble of energetic particles and magnetic fields from the Sun.

Image description: The Voyager 2 aboard Titan III-Centaur launch vehicle lifted off on August 20, 1977. The Voyager 2 was a scientific satellite to study the Jupiter and the Saturn planetary systems including their satellites and Saturn’s rings.

Credit: NASA

#NASA KennedySpaceCenter #Voyager #Space #Rocket #Launch
Happy launch-iversary to #Voyager2, which lifted off #OTD in 1977 and is still active today more than 12.7 billion miles from Earth! @nasa's Voyager 2 is the second spacecraft to enter interstellar space. On Dec. 10, 2018, the spacecraft joined its twin – Voyager 1 – as the only human-made objects to enter the space between the stars. Celebrate Voyager 2's mission to explore the secrets of the universe with these fast facts:

✅Voyager 2 is the only spacecraft to study all four of the solar system's giant planets at close range.
✅Voyager 2 discovered a 14th moon at Jupiter.
✅Voyager 2 was the first human-made object to fly past Uranus.
✅At Uranus, Voyager 2 discovered 10 new moons and two new rings.
✅Voyager 2 was the first human-made object to fly by Neptune.
✅At Neptune, Voyager 2 discovered five moons, four rings, and a "Great Dark Spot."
